--- Page 1 ---

Recommendation
EULAR recommendations for the management of ANCA-associated vasculitis: 2022 update
pue 3x9} 0} payejai sasn 10} Burpnyjout ‘}y61sAdoo Aq peyoej}o1g ‘EzOT YOU 9} UO H9LETZ-~ZZOT-PIE/YEL LOL SB poysi|qnd ys4y :siq wneyy UUY
Bernhard Hellmich © ,| Beatriz Sanchez-Alamo,” Jan H Schirmer, Alvise Berti © ,*° Daniel Blockmans,° Maria C Cid @ ,’ Julia U Holle,® Nicole Hollinger,' Omer Karadag,° Andreas Kronbichler,'*'' Mark A Little,'* Raashid A Lugmani,!? Alfred Mahr, 4 Peter A Merkel @ ,'° Aladdin J Mohammad @ ,'"'® Sara Monti @ ,'”"® Chetan B Mukhtyar @ ,'° Jacek Musial,’° Fiona Price-Kuehne,'' Marten Segelmark,’" YK Onno Teng © ,2* Benjamin Terrier © , 3 Gunnar Tomasson © ,2*° Augusto Vaglio © ,2° Dimitrios Vassilopoulos © ,2’ Peter Verhoeven, ”® David Jayne @"'
ABSTRACT
Handling editor Josef S Smolen
In 2009, the EULAR developed its first recommendations for managing small and medium vessel vasculitis. An update focusing on AAV was published in 2016.° These recommendations provided guidance to clinicians and researchers and have been widely cited. Recent landmark studies on the role of plasma exchange (PLEX), standardisation of glucocorticoid (GC) dosing, use of rituximab (RTX) for maintenance therapy, C5a receptor (CSaR)-targeted and anti-interleukin 5 (IL-5) therapy in EGPA make this an opportune time to update the 2016 guidelines.
Background Since the publication of the EULAR recommendations for the management of antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody (ANCA)-associated vasculitis (AAV) in 2016, several randomised clinical trials have been published that have the potential to change clinical care and support the need for an update.
> Additional supplemental material is published online only. To view, please visit the journal online (http://dx. doi.org/10.1136/ard-2022- 223764).
Methods Using EULAR standardised operating procedures, the EULAR task force undertook a systematic literature review and sought opinion from 20 experts from 16 countries. We modified existing recommendations and created new recommendations. Results Four overarching principles and 17 recommendations were formulated. We recommend biopsies and ANCA testing to assist in establishing a diagnosis of AAV. For remission induction in lifethreatening or organ-threatening AAV, we recommend a combination of high-dose glucocorticoids (GCs) in combination with either rituximab or cyclophosphamide. We recommend tapering of the GC dose to a target of 5mg prednisolone equivalent/day within 4-5 months. Avacopan may be considered as part of a strategy to reduce exposure to GC in granulomatosis with polyangiitis (GPA) or microscopic polyangiitis (MPA). Plasma exchange may be considered in patients with rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis. For remission maintenance of GPA/ MPA, we recommend rituximab. In patients with relapsing or refractory eosinophilic GPA, we recommend the use of mepolizumab. Azathioprine and methotrexate are alternatives to biologics for remission maintenance in AAV. Conclusions In the light of recent advancements, these recommendations provide updated guidance on AAV management. As substantial data gaps still exist, nformed decision-making between physicians and patients remains of key relevance.
For numbered affiliations see end of article.
Correspondence to
Prof Dr Bernhard Hellmich, Klinik fiir Innere Medizin, Rheumatologie und Immunologie, Medius Kliniken, Akademisches Lehrkrankenhaus der Universitat Tubingen, Kirchheim unter Teck 73230, Germany; b.hellmich@medius-kliniken.de
These recommendations address the diagnosis and treatment of adult patients with AAV and are intended to give advice to clinicians, other health professionals, pharmaceutical companies and regulatory organisations.
“sa1Hojouyos} sells pue ‘Hujures} jy ‘Gulujw eyep ysenB Aq Szog ‘81 4equiedeq uo /Wwod/wq'pie//:djjYy Woy papeojuMOG
METHODS
The recommendations were drafted according to the 2014 update of the EULAR standardised operating procedures for the development of EULARendorsed recommendations’ and the updated version of the Appraisal of Guidelines for Research & Evaluation recommendations,* where applicable (see online supplemental file 1 for a full description of methods). The task force consisted of 20 clinical experts including rheumatologists (MCC, BH, JH, OK, RAL, AJM, CBM, JM, PM, GT, DV), internists (AM, DB, BT) and nephrologists (AK, MAL, MS, YKOT, AV, DJ), from 15 European countries and the USA (PM), 2 methodologists (RAL; GT), convenor (BH) and co-convenor (DJ), 2 delegates of the EULAR young rheumatologists’ network EMEUNET (AB, SM), 2 fellows (BS-A, JHS), 1 health professional (NH) and 2 patient representatives (PV, FP-K).
Received 13 December 2022 Accepted 21 February 2023 Published Online First 16 March 2023
®
Check for updates
Based on results of a Delphi survey among the task force, we defined 14 key research questions addressing the management of AAV. For the update domains, the systematic literature review (SLR) was restricted to literature published from first of February 2015 (the date of the last set of recommendations) onwards. For new domains and drugs not included in the last update, the search was unrestricted. The following databases were used:
© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2024. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published y BMI.
BACKGROUND
The antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody (ANCA)- associated vasculitides (AAV) include granulo-matosis with polyangiitis (GPA), microscopic polyangiitis (MPA) and eosinophilic GPA (EGPA).!> AAV represent a subgroup within the spectrum of primary systemic vasculitis defined by the Chapel Hill consensus conference nomenclature.*
To cite: Hellmich B, Sanchez-Alamo B, Schirmer JH, et al. Ann Rheum Dis 2024;83:30-47.
eular
Hellmich B, et al. Ann Rheum Dis 2024;83:30—47. doi:10.1136/ard-2022-223764
*
BM)

--- Page 2 ---

Table 1 EULAR consensus definitions for disease activity states in AAV
uuy
‘non-generalised’, and some guidelines have adopted this categorisation.'*~'° However, the terms ‘severe/non-severe’, ‘limited’ or ‘early-systemic’ are variably defined and misleading in clinical practice. Patients who appear to have less severe disease and may receive less intense treatment yet are at risk of developing organ-threatening or life-threatening manifestations.'” '* In most recent randomised controlled clinical trials (RCTS), this concept has been discarded and patients with different stages of disease severity were assigned the same intensity of induction treatment.'””! As patients with ‘non-severe’ AAV are at risk of being undertreated, this task force decided not to change the categorisation of the 2016 recommendations that distinguishes patients with and without organ-threatening or life-threatening disease (table 2), instead of adapting the terminology of ‘severe’ and ‘non-severe’ AAV.
Activity state EULAR consensus definition Active disease Presence of typical signs, symptoms or other features (such as glomerulonephritis or pulmonary nodules) of active AAV Remission Absence of typical signs, symptoms, or other features of active AAV with or without immunosuppressive therapy Sustained Absence of typical signs, symptoms, or other features of remission active AAV over a defined time period with or without immunosuppressive therapy Response 250% reduction of disease activity score and absence of new manifestations Relapse Recurrence of active AAV after a period of remission Refractory Unchanged or increased signs, symptoms or other features of active AAV after a period of standard induction therapy. Damage, infections, side effects of treatment or comorbidities as potential causes of the persistent or worsened disease manifestations need to be ruled out.
“EZOZT YON 9} UO H9LETZ-ZZOT-PIE/IEL TOL SB paysiignd js4yj :siq WwNeyy 3x9} 0} payejai sasn 410} Bulpnjout ‘}yBl4Adoo Aq pa}oa}01q
Overarching principles
In line with other recent EULAR recommendations, general principles deemed fundamental for the management are now added to the AAV recommendations (table 3). These principles were consensus based and did not result directly from the SLR. Statements 1, 13, 14 and 15 of the 2016 update addressed topics based on low-quality evidence specific to AAV. Therefore, these statements have been moved into overarching principles B, C and D, while the content remains mostly unchanged. 22-24
AAV, antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody-associated vasculitis.
PubMed, EMBASE and Cochrane Library. Each article was assigned a level of evidence according to the standards of the Oxford Centre for Evidence-Based Medicine (2009) and was systematically assessed for bias.’ The methods and results of the SLR are published separately.” '°
A. Patients with AAV should be offered best care which must be based on shared decision-making between the patient and the physician considering efficacy, safety and costs.
During a face-to-face meeting, task force members independently voted on each recommendation. Agreement on each recommendation and on the overarching principles on a scale of 0-10 (10 meaning full agreement) was given anonymously after the meeting by electronic mail. A research agenda was formulated based on controversial issues and evidence gaps. The final manuscript was approved by the EULAR Executive Committee.
“Tuig:pse//:dyjy WOsy POpEO|UMOG “EZOZT YON $ pue ‘Burures} |v ‘Guiuiw eyep pue 3x9} 0} payejai “sa1Hojouyoe} se gzoz ‘8 Jaquiesdeq uo /WO
This highlights the importance of shared decision-making between patients and physicians. Adherence to effective therapies is crucial to prevent permanent organ damage related to uncontrolled inflammation in AAV. Therefore, the committee considers efficacy, safety and tolerability as important factors in the decision-making process. This includes other factors such as kidney or liver function, fertility and pregnancy, lifestyle/ smoking habits or concomitant interacting medications. Costs of treatment also need to be considered as access to expensive medication may be restricted in some countries.
RESULTS
General aspects
Definitions of disease activity states in AAV differed across clinical trials. For the purpose of these recommendations, we propose consensus definitions for disease activity states in AAV (table 1), which are based on the concept of activity states developed for the EULAR recommendations for conducting clinical trials in AAV"! that have been validated for use in clinical trials.'* American College of Rheumatology (ACR)/EULAR criteria for treatment response in AAV are now in development, which are expected to replace these definitions in the future.
B. Patients should have access to education focusing on the impact of AAV and its prognosis, key warning symptoms and treatment (including treatment-related complications).
Patients with AAV should be given a clear explanation of the nature of their disease, the treatment options, side effects of treatment, and their short-term and long-term prognosis. This statement is unchanged from the 2016 update (formerly statement no. 14) and has been moved to an overarching principle.
Patients with AAV have previously been subdivided into those with ‘severe’ and ‘non-severe’ disease, or ‘generalised’ versus
Table 2 Examples of organ/life-threatening and not organ/life-threatening manifestations in patients with AAV Examples of potentially organ/life-threatening manifestations* Examples of manifestations that are not ultimately organ/life-threatening* Glomerulonephritis Nasal and paranasal disease without bony involvement (erosion) or cartilage collapse or olfactory dysfunction or deafness Pulmonary haemorrhage Meningeal involvement Central nervous system involvement Retro-orbital disease Cardiac involvement Mesenteric involvement Mononeuritis multiplex Skin involvement without ulceration Myositis (skeletal muscle only) Non-cavitating pulmonary nodules Episcleritis *These are just examples of typical disease manifestations and many other manifestations of AAV exist. Assessment of severity in the individual patient may differ (eg, scleritis
ysanB6 Aq
can become organ threatening under certain circumstances). AAV, antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody-associated vasculitis.
Hellmich B, et al. Ann Rheum Dis 2024;83:30—47. doi:10.1136/ard-2022-223764

--- Page 3 ---

Recommendati
Table 3. EULAR recommendations for the management of AAV—2022 update LoE SoR FV (%) LoA (0-10) 10 Overarching principles Patients with AAV should be offered best care which must be based on shared decision-making between the patient and the physician considering efficacy, safety and costs. Patients with AAV should have access to education focusing on the impact of AAV and its prognosis, key warning symptoms and treatment (including treatment-related complications). Patients with AAV should be periodically screened for treatment-related adverse effects and comorbidities. We recommend prophylaxis and lifestyle advice to reduce treatment-related complications and other comorbidities. AAV are rare, heterogeneous, and potentially life-threatening and organ-threatening diseases and thus require multidisciplinary management by centres with, or with ready access to, expertise in vasculitis. Recommendations A positive biopsy is strongly supportive of a diagnosis of vasculitis and we recommend biopsies to assist in establishing a new diagnosis of AAV and for further evaluation of patients suspected of having relapsing vasculitis. In patients with signs and/or symptoms raising suspicion of a diagnosis of AAV, we recommend testing for both PR3-ANCA and MPO-ANCA using a high-quality antigen-specific assay as the primary method of testing. For induction of remission in patients with new-onset or relapsing GPA or MPA with organthreatening or life-threatening disease, we recommend treatment with a combination of glucocorticoids and either rituximab or cyclophosphamide.* Rituximab is preferred in relapsing disease.t For induction of remission of non-organ-threatening or non-life-threatening GPA or MPA, treatment with a combination of glucocorticoids and rituximab is recommended. Methotrexate or mycophenolate mofetil can be considered as alternatives to rituximab. As part of regimens for induction of remission in GPA or MPA, we recommend treatment with oral glucocorticoids at a starting dose of 50-75 mg prednisolone equivalent/day, depending on body weight. We recommend stepwise reduction in glucocorticoids according to table 4 and achieving a dose of 5 mg prednisolone equivalent per day by 4-5 months. Avacopan in combination with rituximab or cyclophosphamide may be considered for induction of remission in GPA or MPA, as part of a strategy to substantially reduce exposure to glucocorticoids. Plasma exchange may be considered as part of therapy to induce remission in GPA or MPA for those with a serum creatinine >300 pmol/L due to active glomerulonephritis.* Routine use of plasma exchange to treat alveolar haemorrhage in GPA and MPA is not recommended.t For patients with GPA or MPA with disease refractory to therapy to induce remission, we recommend a thorough reassessment of disease status and comorbidities and consideration of options for additional or different treatment. These patients should be managed in close conjunction with, or referred to, a centre with expertise in vasculitis. For maintenance of remission of GPA and MPA, after induction of remission with either rituximab or cyclophosphamide, we recommend treatment with rituximab. Azathioprine or methotrexate may be considered as alternatives. We recommend that therapy to maintain remission for GPA and MPA be continued for 24— 48 months following induction of remission of new-onset disease.* Longer duration of therapy should be considered in relapsing patients or those with an increased risk of relapse, but should be balanced against patient preferences and risks of continuing immunosuppression.t For induction of remission in new-onset or relapsing EGPA with organ-threatening or life-na. na. na. na. 3b la a* 2bt 1b na. na. na. na. at Bt B* Bt na. na. na. na. 90 100 100 90 100 100 95* 90t 100 100 100 100 9.6+0.5 9.8+0.6 9.8+0.6 9.8+0.5 8.741.9 10.040 9.6+0.8 9.2+0.8 9.4+0.8 9.0+0.9 8.041.7 8.841.3 9.9+0.5 9.341.0 9141.4 9.6+0.8
threatening manifestations, we recommend treatment with a combination of high-dose glucocorticoids and cyclophosphamide. A combination of high-dose glucocorticoids and rituximab may be considered as an alternative.
"€ZO7 YOR QL UO HO9ZETZ-ZZO7-PIE/YEL LOL SB peysiiqnd jsay :siq wneyy uy 1x9} 0} payejas sasn 10} Burpnjou! ‘}YyBluAdoo Aq pajda}01q4
9.340.9
lug psey/:d}jy WO1y papeojuMoOg Is pue ‘Bulures | ‘Bulujw eyep pue “sa1Bojouyoe} Je]! ysanB6 Aq gzoz ‘8 Jaquiesdeq uo /WO
8.941.3
For induction of remission in new-onset or relapsing EGPA without organ-threatening or lifethreatening manifestations, we recommend treatment with glucocorticoids. For induction of remission in patients with relapsing or refractory EGPA without active organthreatening or life-threatening disease, we recommend the use of mepolizumab. For maintenance of remission of EGPA after induction of remission for organ-threatening or life-threatening disease, treatment with either methotrexatet, azathioprinet, mepolizumabt or rituximab+ should be considered 1b 2bt
8.8415
For maintenance of remission of relapsing EGPA after induction of remission for non-organthreatening or life-threatening manifestations at the time of relapse, we recommend treatment with mepolizumab.* In the management of patients with AAV, we recommend that structured clinical assessment, rather than ANCA and/or CD19+ B cell testing alone, should inform decisions on changes in 1b*
treatment.
9.341.1
Continued
Hellmich B, et al. Ann Rheum Dis 2024;83:30-47. doi:10.1136/ard-2022-223764

--- Page 4 ---

Table 3 Continued
LoE SoR FV (%) LoA (0-10) 16 In patients with AAV receiving rituximab, we recommend measurement of serum 1b B 100 9.241.4 immunoglobulin concentrations prior to each course of rituximab to detect secondary immunodeficiency. 17 For patients with AAV receiving rituximab, cyclophosphamide and/or high doses of 3b B 100 9.5411 glucocorticoids, we recommend the use of trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole as prophylaxis against Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia and other infections.
H9LETZ-ZZOT-PIE/YEL LOL SB poysijqnd ys :siq wneyy uUY
The LoE was determined for different parts of each recommendation (referred to with different signs such as * or t). The level of agreement was computed on a 0-10 scale. AAV, ANCA-associated vasculitis; ANCA, antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody; EGPA, eosinophilic GPA; FY, final vote (% of expert panel members who agreed with the recommendation); GPA, granulomatosis with polyangiitis; LoA, level of agreement on a scale of 0-10; LoE, level of evidence; MPA, microscopic polyangiitis; MPO, myeloperoxidase; n.a., not applicable; PR3, proteinase 3; SoR, strength of recommendation.
pue 3x9} 0} payejai sasn 410} Bulpnjout ‘}yBl4Adoo Aq pa}oa}01q "EZOZ YOIeWI 9} UO
from single-centre cohorts,**** but high-quality evidence on this topic is still lacking.
Structured education programmes in patients with AAV increase knowledge in areas such as treatment and side effects.?* 7° Patients should be informed on how to reach a vasculitis patient organisation.
Recommendations
C. Patients with AAV should be periodically screened for treatment-related adverse effects and comorbidities. We recommend prophylaxis and lifestyle advice to reduce treatment-related complications and other comorbidities.
1. A positive biopsy is strongly supportive of a diagnosis of vasculitis and we recommend biopsies to assist in establishing a new diagnosis and for further evaluation for patients suspected of having relapsing vasculitis.
Statements 11, 13 and 15 of the 2016 update have been transferred to principle C. As the use of cyclophosphamide (CYC) is associated with an increased risk of bladder cancer,” all patients treated with CYC should have periodical urinalysis for the duration of their follow-up. In the presence of haematuria confirmed on urine microscopy that is not due to glomerulonephritis, a urology opinion must be sought. In common with other chronic inflammatory diseases, increased cardiovascular risk for patients with AAV is not explained by traditional risk factors alone and the risk of cardiovascular events is related to the burden of AAV disease activity.’*”° Additionally, as a result of damage due to AAV and its treatment, the frequency of cardiovascular risk factors such as diabetes and hypertension is increased.” Therefore, both adequate control of vascular inflammation, and screening for and treatment of traditional cardiovascular risk factors, are important.*! Screening for and management of other treatment-related and disease-related comorbidities, such as osteoporosis or chronic kidney disease, should also be conducted. While the available evidence is insufficient to recommend an AAV-specific evaluation of comorbidities, several EULAR and other recommendations*!* provide general guidance.
This recommendation (former statement no. 2), and additional guidance related to the role of biopsies outlined in the 2016 update,° have not been revised, as the key evidence supporting this recommendation is unchanged. In addition to supporting a clinical diagnosis, biopsies (particularly from the kidney) can be helpful for distinguishing active disease from damage as the cause of clinical decline. A clinicopathological renal risk score gives prognostic information for end-stage kidney disease (ESKD) but histopathological subtypes are insufficient to guide treatment decisions.*” 4 Repeat kidney biopsy may differentiate recurrent or refractory disease activity from damage or alternative diagnoses.**
$ pue ‘Burures} |v ‘Guiuiw eyep ‘Tuigq’pse//:dyjy Woy papeojuMog “sa1Hojouyoe} se ysanB6 Aq gzoz ‘8 Jaquiesdeq uo /WO
This task force acknowledges that it may not be feasible to obtain a biopsy in every patient with suspected AAV, and initiation of treatment should not be delayed while awaiting histological information."* Barriers to biopsies may include difficulty accessing tissue (eg, retro-orbital mass in GPA), unjustified risk of procedure (eg, patients who are on anticoagulant therapy) and anticipated low yield (eg, the diagnostic sensitivities of upper airway and transbronchial biopsies are only 30% and 12%, respectively).*” ** In patients with pulmonary lesions that cannot be clearly attributed to active AAV, thoracoscopic or open lung biopsies can be considered.*”*! When obtaining or interpreting a biopsy is challenging, surrogate markers can support a clinical diagnosis of AAV that is based on a typical clinical presentation and positive proteinase 3 (PR3)-ANCA or myelop-eroxidase (MPO)-ANCA serology.°* Such surrogate parameters can be either clinical (such as mononeuritis multiplex confirmed by electrophysiological studies), laboratory data (such as red blood cell casts in the urine suggestive of glomerulonephritis) or findings on imaging.**
D. AAV are rare, heterogeneous, and potentially life-threatening and organ-threatening diseases and thus require multidisciplinary management by centres with, or with ready access to, specific vasculitis expertise.
This is based on statement 1 of the 2016 recommendations. Since AAV are rare, expertise in their management is more likely to be available in specialised centres. Accurate diagnosis, assessment of disease severity and differentiation between active vasculitis, infection and other complications or comorbidities can be challenging and often require rapid and low-threshold access to multidisciplinary diagnostic evaluation and treatment. In view of the limited number of formally approved therapies, access to treatment with novel drugs within clinical trials can be important, particularly in patients with relapsing or refrac-tory AAV. Appropriately trained nurses and other healthcare providers experienced in AAV can support patients and provide education. These and other services can be bundled in dedicated vasculitis centres, such as the vasculitis centres within the European Reference Network for rare immune disorders (www. ern-rita-org). Better outcomes of patients with centre-based management compared with earlier cohorts have been reported
No studies have investigated the diagnostic accuracy of imaging compared with a definite clinical diagnosis or a positive biopsy in AAV,"° Therefore, no evidence-based recommendations on the use of imaging for the diagnosis of AAV can be made. However, imaging is recommended as an integral part of the diagnostic evaluation to detect organ involvement and to identify potential biopsy sites. CT of the chest is more sensitive than conventional radiographs and helps to distinguish disease manifestations of AAV from infection and other comorbidities,>~** and to detect interstitial lung disease in patients with MPA.°*** MRI can detect
Hellmich B, et al. Ann Rheum Dis 2024;83:30—47. doi:10.1136/ard-2022-223764

--- Page 5 ---

Recommendation
central nervous system lesions, pachymeningitis, retro-orbital lesions, or subglottic inflammation in GPA or cardiac disease in EGPA.*”® F-18-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography with CT allows detection of occult sites of disease activity, concomitant malignancy and chronic infection.‘ Endoscopy contributes to the management of certain organ-specific manifestations, such as subglottic or bronchial stenosis, or vasculitis of the gastrointestinal tract.“*°° Bronchoalveolar lavage contrib-utes to the evaluation of pulmonary infiltrations, particularly alveolar haemorrhage or eosinophilic alveolitis, and microbio-logical analysis of the lower respiratory tract.
other clinical outcomes.” °° The 2012 Chapel Hill consensus conference recommended adding the prefix to the name to indicate ANCA reactivity (ie, MPO-ANCA, PR3-ANCA or ANCAnegative), while the presence of PR3 or MPO-ANCA is weighted highly in the 2022 ACR/EULAR classification criteria for GPA, MPA and EGPA.'* Therefore, ANCA serotype is emerging as a key clinical classification criterion.
H9LETZ-~ZZOT-PIE/YEL LOL SB poysi|qnd ys4y :siq wneyy UUY
3. For induction of remission in patients with new-onset or relapsing GPA or MPA with organ-threatening or life-threatening disease, we recommend treatment with a combination of GCs and either RIX or CYC. RTX is preferred in relapsing disease.
Burpnyjout ‘}y61sAdoo Aq peyoej}o1g
2. In patients with signs and/or symptoms raising suspicion of a diagnosis of AAV, we recommend testing for both PR3-ANCA and MPO-ANCA using a high-quality antigen-specific assay as the primary method of testing.
The two major changes of this recommendation wording are the recommendation for a preferential use of RTX in relapsing GPA or MPA and the exclusion of EGPA, for which separate recommendations have been created.
Recent trials of induction therapy with CYC-based or RTXbased regimens in GPA and MPA included both new-onset and relapsing patients.’” *' In the largest trial comparing RTX and CYC for remission induction, remission rates at 6 and 12 months in relapsing patients were higher for RTX. This superiority of RTX over CYC did not extend to month 18,*'*? probably because there was no maintenance treatment in the RTX arm, whereas patients in the CYC arm were switched to receive azathioprine (AZA) for 12-15 months. Therefore, we favour treatment with RTX in relapsing patients (figure 1). The recently published data from the induction part of the RITAZAREM Study have shown that RTX can effectively restore remission in patients with relapsing AAV.”° There are limited data on use of CYC in patients relapsing after induction with RTX and the risk of malignancy increases when repeated courses of CYC are given.’”
This recommendation was added due to the increasing relevance of ANCA for the diagnosis and classification of AAV and new data on the methodology of ANCA testing. ANCA is detectable in most patients with newly diagnosed GPA and MPA and contributes to the diagnosis. Although ANCA is a sensitive and specific tool to support a diagnosis of AAV, the diagnosis should not be made on ANCA serology alone, as ANCA can be found in other inflammatory diseases and infections, or may be drug induced.” °* Antigen-specific immunoassays have better diagnostic accuracy than indirect immunofluorescence (IIF).° The 2017 international consensus statement on testing of ANCA in GPA and MPA recommended high-quality immunoassays for PR3 and MPO-ANCA as the preferred screening method for diagnosis.” If the immunoassay is negative, but the clinical suspicion for AAV is still high, a second test (either another immuno-assays and/or IIF) is advised. A negative ANCA does not exclude a diagnosis of AAV, as a small proportion of patients with disease limited to the respiratory tract, or with renal-limited vasculitis, are ANCA negative.”” The 2017 international consensus statement contains detailed advice regarding other aspects of ANCA testing in GPA and MPA, such as indications for testing, the role of antibody levels and laboratory methodology. Additional testing for antibodies against glomerular basement membrane (anti-GBM) is advisable in the context of pulmonary-renal syndrome, as patients with anti-GBM/AAV overlap have a lower renal survival”! and benefit from routine use of PLEX.
“sa1Hojouyos} sells pue ‘Hujures} jy ‘Gulujw eyep pue 3x9} 0} payejai sasn 10} 4equiedeq uo /Wwod/wq'pie//:djjYy Woy papeojuMOG ‘EzOT YOU 9} UO
In new-onset GPA or MPA, RTX was non-inferior to CYC for induction of remission in two high-quality RCTs.*! ° Additional CTs comparing both of these agents for induction of remission in new-onset GPA or MPA have not been published since the last update, nor have new data been released showing differences in ong-term outcomes between them. There has been an increasing preference for RTX over CYC, mostly because of concerns about ong-term safety of CYC.** As CYC reduces ovarian reserve and increases the risk of premature ovarian failure and male infertility,*> ** RTX is preferable in patients who wish to preserve their reproductive potential. CYC has been associated with development of bladder cancer, bone marrow failure, myelodys-plastic syndrome and other malignancies.”’ °°? The use of RTX is lowering CYC exposure and reducing the risk of malignancy in patients with AAV!
may
With a prevalence of 30% at diagnosis, ANCA is less frequent in patients with EGPA, in whom MPO-ANCA is the predom-inant serotype.’ “* EGPA with PR3-ANCA shares clinical features with GPA.” A genome-wide association study reported that ANCA-positive and ANCA-negative EGPA are genetically different syndromes.” Glomerulonephritis and neuropathy occur more frequently in ANCA-positive EGPA, while pulmonary infiltrates and cardiomyopathy are more frequent in ANCA-negative patients.”’ The international consensus statement on testing of ANCA in EGPA stated that the presence of MPO-ANCA is neither sensitive nor specific enough to identify whether a patient should be subclassified as having ‘vasculitic’ or ‘eosinophilic’ EGPA.”° Furthermore, no differences in response to treatment between ANCA-positive and ANCA-negative patients were seen in two recent RCTs examining the use of RTX or mepolizumab in EGPA.”’ *
A recent meta-analysis that included retrospective studies found that efficacy and safety outcomes do not differ between the RTX protocol used in the RAVE trial (375 mg/m? per week for 4weeks), which is approved for induction of remission in GPA and MPA in the European Union and the two-dose protocol (1g in weeks 0 and 2) approved for rheumatoid arthritis.”* Recent retrospective studies found similar efficacy of RTX and RTX biosimilars in patients with AAV.>*° Until recently, experience with RTX without concomitant CYC in patients with severe kidney failure has been limited to data from retrospective studies.”° The recent PEXIVAS Study included patients with severe renal disease and/or diffuse alveolar haemorrhage (DAH) treated with RTX and outcomes appear not to differ compared with CYC, but the study was not sufficiently powered to demonstrate non-inferiority of RTX over CYC in this subgroup.” Although pharmacokinetics and mode of action of RTX do not suggest inferior efficacy in patients with renal failure or DAH, some task force members prefer CYC over RTX in this setting. No RCTs have assessed the benefit of RTX/CYC combination
ysenB Aq Szog ‘81
ANCA serology is also relevant for the subclassification of AAV. In a large multicentre cohort study, PR3-ANCA was detected in 84%-85% of patients with GPA and 2%-27% of patients with MPA, while MPO-ANCA was found in 16% of patients with GPA and 75%-97%with MPA.” Patients with PR3-ANCA and MPO-ANCA have distinct genetic backgrounds and differ in the frequency of some clinical manifestations, relapse rates and
Hellmich B, et al. Ann Rheum Dis 2024;83:30-47. doi:10.1136/ard-2022-223764

--- Page 6 ---

Recommendation
AAV, the RAVE trial and recent trials using RTX for induction therapy included such patients. Efficacy and safety outcomes were not inferior compared with those who had more severe disease at baseline.!??!*!
H9LETZ-~ZZOT-PIE/YEL LOL SB poysi|qnd ys4y :siq wneyy UUY
With respect to MTX and MMF, this statement refers to newonset disease only. The MYCYC Study also included patients without organ-threatening manifestations.2! Another RCT comparing CYC and MMF in AAV found numerically lower disease-free survival rates in the MMF group at 2 and 4years, respectively.'°? Two smaller RCTs, primarily focusing on MPA, concluded equivalence of CYC and MMF for remission induction and safety.'°° '* Given the probable lower long-term efficacy in patients with PR3-ANCA-positive AAV, the lack of superiority in safety and the lack of formal approval for use in AAV, there is insufficient evidence to support the routine use of MMF as a treatment of first choice for new-onset GPA or MPA over RTX or CYC. MMF can be considered as an alternative to RTX-based regimens, particularly in patients with intolerance or contraindications to RTX.
Burpnyjout ‘}y61sAdoo Aq peyoej}o1g
The NORAM trial comparing oral CYC versus oral MTX in new-onset GPA found no difference in remission rates and safety at 6 months.'° !°° However, around 50% of patients in the MTX arm had either not attained remission or experienced a relapse by month 12 despite continued MTX and high GC exposure (starting dose 1 mg/kg, slow taper to 15mg per day by month 3), had a shorter time to first relapse and developed additional relapse in the absence of maintenance therapy after month 12. Both NORAM and MYCYC employed GC regimens with higher doses than are currently recommended (see recommendation no. 5), which increased the chance of demonstrating non-inferiority. In contrast, recent data from the induction phase of the RITAZAREM trial showed that patients with GPA or MPA without organ-threatening manifestation who were treated with RTX were in remission at month 4 despite the use of a lowerdose GC regimen with a starting dose of 30 mg prednisolone per day.”? In summary, the use of RTX over MTX or MMF should be considered in patients with GPA and MPA even without organ-threatening manifestations as RTX-based induction and remission regimens are associated with higher rates of sustained remission and lower GC exposure (see statement no. 5).
Figure 1 The 2022 EULAR algorithm for treatment of granulomatosis with polyangjitis (GPA) or microscopic polyangiitis (MPA). Dashed lines indicate supplementary action to consider. GC doses are provided as prednisolone equivalent. 'See table 2 for examples of organ/lifethreatening and not organ/life-threatening manifestations. ’See table 4 and recommendation no. 5 for details and consider lower starting dose of 0.5 mg/kg/day in individual patients without organ-threatening or life-threatening manifestations. ?As part of a strategy to substantially reduce exposure to GCs (see recommendation no. 6 for details). “Prefer RTX over CYC in relapsing disease and patients (m/f) with childbearing potential or previous exposure to CYC at an individual cumulative dosage considered to be associated with an increased risk of complications. *In selected patients with serum creatinine >300 pmol/L due to active glomerulonephritis, plasma exchange may be considered taken into account individual risk for end-stage kidney disease and patient preferences. °Stop avacopan after duration of treatment of 6-12 months; there are no data on use of avacopan beyond 1 year, so longer-term use cannot be recommended. AZA, azathioprine; CYC, cyclophosphamide; GC, glucocorticoid; MMF, mycophenolate mofetil; MTX, methotrexate; RPGN, rapid progressive glomerulonephritis; RTX, rituximab.
“sa1Hojouyos} sells pue ‘Hujures} jy ‘Gulujw eyep pue 3x9} 0} payejai sasn 10} 4equiedeq uo /Wwod/wq'pie//:djjYy Woy papeojuMOG ‘EzOT YOU 9} UO
CYC is associated with long-term complications and should not be used as a first-line option in non-organ-threatening disease. It may be considered for remission induction in non-organ-threatening disease when the alternatives RTX, MTX and MMF cannot be used or are ineffective.
over RTX. However, the RTX/CYC combination has been shown to be CYC reducing in RITUXVAS,*? and retrospective studies’*“!°! have indicated the possibility of GC minimisation and improved responses that require investigation in an RCT (NCT03942887).
5. As part of regimens for induction of remission in GPA or MPA, we recommend treatment with oral GCs at a starting dose of 50-75 mg prednisolone equivalent/day, depending on body weight. We recommend stepwise reduction in GCs according to table 4 and achieving a dose of 5mg prednisolone equivalent per day by 4-5 months.
The MYCYC trial showed that mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) was non-inferior to CYC for remission induction in new-onset MPA or GPA.”! There was no safety benefit of MMF demonstrated and the study subjects in the MMF group who were PR3-ANCA positive had a much higher relapse rate.”! Thus, use of MMF for remission induction should be limited to situations where RTX and CYC are not tolerated or are contraindicated.
Long-term follow-up of 535 patients with MPA or GPA and a broad spectrum of severity stages revealed an increased mortality ratio of 2.6 (95% CI 2.2 to 3.1) compared with an age-matched and sex-matched general population. The main causes of death within the first year were infection (48%) and active vasculitis (19%).'°” High-dose GC contributes to the risk of infections,'°*!!° and patients are concerned about adverse effects of GC,'!! thus reducing GC exposure in AAV without compromising control of vasculitis is a priority.
ysenB Aq Szog ‘81
4. For induction of remission of non-organ-threatening or non-life-threatening GPA or MPA, treatment with a combination of GCs and RTX is recommended. Methotrexate (MTX) or MMF can be considered as alternatives to RTX.
The PEXIVAS trial compared two GC taper regimens in 704 patients with GPA and MPA and active organ-threatening or life-threatening disease.”” The reduced-dose prednisone regimen (table 4) resulted in a 40% reduction in oral GC exposure in
In contrast to the 2016 update, this recommendation now includes RTX. Although, there are no RCTs comparing the use of RTX with other agents in patients with non-organ-threatening
Hellmich B, et al. Ann Rheum Dis 2024;83:30—47. doi:10.1136/ard-2022-223764

--- Page 7 ---

Recommendati
encourage further research of lower GC starting doses in cohorts with a broader spectrum of risk factors for unfavourable disease outcomes. For now, lower GC starting doses of 0.5 mg/kg/day may be considered on an individual basis in selected patients without life-threatening or organ-threatening disease.
Table 4 Glucocorticoid dosing (mg/day, prednisolone equivalent) with rituximab or cyclophosphamide-based regimens for remission induction in GPA or MPA according to the PEXIVAS Study®?
UUY
Body weight (kg) Weeks <50 50-75 >75 1* 50 60 75 2 25 30 40 3-4 20 25 30 5-6 15 20 25 7-8 12.5 15 20 9-10 10 12.5 15 11-12 75 10 12.5 13-14 6 75 10 15-18 5 5 75 19-52 5 5 5 >52 Individual taper Individual taper Individual taper
4x9} 0} payejas sasn 10} Buipnjout ‘}YyBluAdoo Aq pa}oe}01q “EZOS YOJEIN OL UO HOLETZ-ZZON-PIE/OEL LOL SB peysiignd si :siq Wneyy
Administration of intravenous methylprednisolone (MP) pulses in doses of 1000-3000 mg has been used in induction protocols including the RAVE, MEPEX and PEXIVAS trials*! °”'" and is common practice in many institutions, without an evidence base. No head-to-head trials have studied the role of MP pulses in AAV, the best available evidence being derived from indirect compar-ison across different trials. Observational studies have reported no efficacy benefit but increased rates of infections with the use of higher initial doses of GC, including MP pulses. °° 10 114 115 Taken together, there is no compelling evidence to support the routine use of MP pulse therapy in addition to oral GC induction therapy, and there is a need for further research on this topic. In view of this limitation, and based on the evidence from PEXIVAS trial, MP pulse therapy should be limited to treatment of severe organ-threatening manifestations, particularly either active renal involvement with a documented estimated glomer-ular filtration rate (eGFR) of <50mL/min/1.73/m*, or DAH.
*Consider use of intravenous methylprednisolone at a cumulative dose of 1-3g on days 1-3 in patients with severely active disease, including but not limited to renal involvement with a documented estimated glomerular filtration rate <50 mL/ min/1.73 m? and/or diffuse alveolar haemorrhage.
GPA, granulomatosis with polyangiitis; MPA, microscopic polyangiitis.
6. Avacopan, in combination with RTX or CYC, may be considered for induction of remission in GPA or MPA as part of a strategy to substantially reduce exposure to GCs.
the first 6 months (figure 2); it was not inferior for the primary efficacy endpoint but led to a reduction of serious infections during the first year. We recommend tapering GC according to the PEXIVAS reduced GC regimen.!!”
This is a new recommendation based on results of the ADVOCATE RCT in 331 patients with newly diagnosed or relapsing MPA or GPA that compared the use of the oral C5aR inhibitor avacopan (30mg two times per day) with a GC regimen tapering from 1 mg/kg/day to 0 by 21 weeks (a GC withdrawal time similar to the RAVE trial*!) as part of a standard induction protocol (RTX or CYC).'? The primary endpoint (remission at week 26) was reached at similar rates with avacopan (72.3%) and GCs (70.1%). Patients with active glomerulonephritis at baseline had greater recovery of kidney function compared with patients treated with GCs. The cumulative GC dose in the avacopan group over lyear was 2.3 g lower than in the prednisone group, and GC-induced toxic effects measured by the Glucocorticoid Toxicity Index at week 26 were lower in the avacopan compared with the prednisone group. The incidence of adverse events, severe adverse events and infections was not different between groups. There are no data on use of avacopan beyond lyear, so longer-term use cannot be recommended. We recommend consideration of avacopan in those subgroups that are likely to have enhanced benefit compared with GC therapy, that is, patients at risk of development or worsening of GC-related adverse effects and complications or patients with active glomerulonephritis and rapidly deteriorating kidney function who had better recovery of kidney function with avacopan."”
The RITAZAREM trial of 190patients with GPA/MPA at relapse permitted physician selection of either 0.5 mg/kg/day or 1.0 mg/kg/day starting dose of GC in conjunction with RTX.° Although the GC dosing regimens were non-randomised, when patients were stratified for ‘major’ or ‘minor’ relapse, no differ-ences in efficacy were seen for either severity subgroup between the two doses.” A recent randomised, open-label multicentre trial in patients with predominantly MPA excluding severe kidney disease and/or alveolar haemorrhage compared a reduced GC starting dose (0.5 mg/kg) with a standard starting dose (1 mg/ kg) for induction of remission in combination with RTX. At 6 months, remission rates were similar in both groups, but serious adverse events and infections occurred less frequently with the reduced dose. It is premature to give a general recommendation to use lower GC starting doses of 0.5 mg/kg for remission induction in all patients with active AAV. However, these data
pue
*sa1Bojouyos} sejiwis pue ‘Bujuresy | ‘Burujw eyep ysenB Aq Szoz ‘8} 4equieceq uo /woo'|wq'pJe//:djjy WO’ pepeo|UMOG
In ADVOCATE, remission sustained until week 52 (the second primary endpoint) was reached at a higher rate in the avacopan (65.7%) compared with the GC treatment groups (54.9%). Thus, avacopan appears to have efficacy for maintenance of remission. Future studies are needed to evaluate the role of avacopan for this purpose beyond 1 year, for patients presenting with a GFR <15 mL/min/1.73 m’, and for those with refractory disease, and whether avacopan can be stopped when RTX is given for maintenance of remission.
Figure 2 Protocol target glucocorticoid (GC) doses in AAV induction trials®' 1° "321-226 (black line), illustrating how these compare with the reduced GC group from the PEXIVAS trial (red line). The line and error bars represent the mean and 95% Cls across a range of weights, genders and ages. AAV, antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody-associated vasculitis.
7. PLEX may be considered as part of therapy to induce remission in GPA or MPA for those with a serum creatinine >300umol/L due to active glomerulonephritis. Routine use of PLEX to treat alveolar haemorrhage in GPA and MPA is not recommended.
Hellmich B, et al. Ann Rheum Dis 2024;83:30-47. doi:10.1136/ard-2022-223764

--- Page 8 ---

Recommendation
death from any cause or development of ESKD was found in these patients even after adjustment for the severity of DAH, but this substudy was underpowered for this endpoint, and further analysis of the impact of PLEX on DAH mortality is ongoing. As isolated DAH is rare in AAV, the driver for PLEX in those with DAH is usually the degree of associated renal impairment, and there is insufficient evidence to make a recommendation for or against PLEX in isolated DAH.
Compared with the 2016 update, the strength of recommendation supporting the use of PLEX for patients with active glomer-ulonephritis has been reduced (‘may be considered’ compared with ‘we recommend’). While the cut-off point serum creatinine qualifying for PLEX has been lowered from 500 to 300 mol/L (3.41-5.68 mg/dL), the routine use of PLEX to treat alveolar aemorrhage in GPA and MPA is not routinely recommended.
3x9} 0} payejai sasn 10} Burpnyjout ‘}y61sAdoo Aq peyoej}o1g ‘EzOT YOU 9} UO H9LETZ-~ZZOT-PIE/YEL LOL SB poysi|qnd ys4y :siq wneyy UUY
The 2016 statement was based on the results of the MEPEX trial''S that included only patients with severe glomerulone-hritis defined by a serum creatinine >500 mol/L. In view of a meta-analysis,''® which suggested that the evidence supporting PLEX was not robust, but there may be benefit in less severe resentations, the PEXIVAS trial was conducted to evaluate the efficacy of PLEX as an adjunct to standard induction therapy in atients with newly diagnosed or relapsing MPA or GPA, with sitive PR3 or MPO-ANCA who had active kidney involvement with an eGFR <50mL/min/1.73 m* or DAH.” After a median follow-up of 2.9 years, no difference for the primary composite endpoint of death of any cause or ESKD was found between patients randomised to PLEX (28%) compared with those randomised to no PLEX (31%).
PLEX is recommended for those patients with AAV also positive for anti-GBM antibodies.'*! Although high-quality evidence for this small subgroup is lacking, most clinicians follow management recommendations for both anti-GBM disease and AAV in their initial treatment of these dual-positive patients.'** There is low level of evidence derived from a prospective randomised trial that included 62 patients with either EGPA or polyarteritis nodosa for a lack of short-term and long-term efficacy of PLEX on remission and mortality in patients with EGPA.' '**
8. For patients with GPA or MPA with disease refractory to therapy to induce remission, we recommend a thorough reassessment of disease status and comorbidities and consider options for use of additional or different treatment. These patients should be managed in close conjunction with, or referred to, a centre with expertise in vasculitis.
A meta-analysis of nine RCTs” !'°!!7-4 confirmed that PLEX had no effect on all-cause mortality.'2> Outcome data for ESKD were reported in 999 patients of which 597 came from PEXIVAS, and a meta-analysis revealed that PLEX reduced the risk of ESKD at 12 months (relative risk 0.62 (95% CI 0.39 to 0.98)). As baseline serum creatinine predicts ESKD risk, subgroups based on baseline creatinine with low risk (<200 mol/L), low to moderate risk (>200-300 mol/L), moderate to high risk (>300-500umol/L) and high risk (>500umol/L) were analysed. While little absolute risk reduction of ESKD was observed following use of PLEX in the low-risk and low moderate-risk groups, a 4.6% absolute reduction of ESKD at 12 months was estimated for the moderate high-risk group and 16.0% for the high-risk group.'”° 7° This translates into a number of patients to treat with PLEX of 21.7 for the moderate to high-risk group and 6.25 for the high-risk group to prevent one case of ESKD at 12 months. The impact of PLEX on ESKD risk diminished over a 3-year follow-up (relative risk 0.79 (95% CI 0.58 to 1.08)). PLEX increased the risk of serious infections at 12 months by 8.5% in the moderate high-risk group, and 13.5% in the high-risk group or patients, and no effect on quality of life was found.'?> Thus, treating 14 patients with PLEX will result in one serious infection. Two retrospective studies involving 251 and 188 patients with AAV and severe kidney disease, respectively, found no efficacy of PLEX on death or ESKD.'?” 7
Given new options, it is too narrow to limit the recommen-dation for refractory disease to switching from CYC to RTX or vice versa, as stated in 2016. Time to a treatment response varies individually in the early treatment phase (weeks 0-4). Raising the GC dose for some time can be reasonable strategy, particularly if only minor symptoms persist. The combination of RTX and CYC is used in patients with refractory organ-threatening or lifethreatening disease by many centres, but data on this approach in true refractory AAV are lacking. Adding intravenous immuno-globulins can be an option for persistent disease manifestations, particularly in patients with increased risk of infection.'*° No controlled studies on the management of refractory GPA or MPA have been published since the last update. Refractory disease is rare, and management should include review of the diagnosis and careful assessment of disease activity. Refractory AAV needs to be distinguished from infections, other comorbidities and alternative diagnoses. Therefore, patients with suspected refrac-tory severe AAV should be managed at centres of expertise.
“sa1Hojouyos} sells pue ‘Hujures} jy ‘Gulujw ysenB Aq Szog ‘81 4equiedeq uo /Wwod/wq'pie//:djjYy Woy
eyep pue papeojuMOG
9. For maintenance of remission of GPA and MPA, after induction of remission with either RTX or CYC, we recommend treatment with RTX. AZA or MTX may be considered as alternatives.
This recommendation was changed towards favouring RTX in view of consistent results from two high-quality RCTs confirming a higher efficacy of RTX compared with AZA1* '°” and other recent prospective trials on the use of RTX for maintenance of remission. 8
Thus, PLEX may reduce the risk of ESKD 12months but may increase the risk of severe infection. This benefit declines over longer follow-up, suggesting that PLEX might prolong the time to dialysis. Balancing the reported benefit in a subgroup of patients at high risk of ESKD against the risk of severe infection, the cost and risks of the procedure, PLEX may be considered as an adjunctive treatment of GPA and MPA for selected cases with a serum creatinine >300 umol/L, after discussion of the risks and benefits with the patient.
In the MAINRITSAN trial, patients who attained remission after induction therapy with GC and CYC, repeat-dose RTX (500 mg two times at 6months then 500mg every 6 months three times) over 2 years was associated with a lower relapse rate than treatment with AZA, with comparable safety.'** Long-term data of this trial showed that the rate of sustained remission remained superior over 60 months with repeat-dose RTX, with better overall survival.'*° First results (abstract) of another multicentre RCT (RITAZAREM) now confirm the higher efficacy of RTX (1g every 4months five times) compared with AZA for patients receiving RTX induction therapy for relapsing disease.'*” Results of MAINRITSAN and RITAZAREM comple-mented each other with similar findings despite methodological differences (ie, type of induction therapy, duration and dose of AZA, inclusion of relapsing patients, RTX dose and dosing
The SLR and recent meta-analysis revealed no evidence for clinically relevant benefit of PLEX in patients with AAV and DAH.'° A small open-label study reported survival in patients with DAH of whom 9 had severe DAH,'”’ while an observational study of 73 patients with DAH of which 34 required mechanical ventilation did not find a benefit of PLEX on mortality or other outcomes.'*’ In PEXIVAS, DAH was present in 191 patients and was associated with hypoxia in 61. No significant effect of PLEX on the combined endpoint of
a
Hellmich B, et al. Ann Rheum Dis 2024;83:30—47. doi:10.1136/ard-2022-223764

--- Page 9 ---

interval).” RTX is considered cost-effective by preventing costs associated with the occurrence of relapses, particularly since RTX biosimilars have become available.'*! In an RCT, ‘tailored’ RTX maintenance treatment based on biomarkers (rise of ANCA concentration, switch from negative to positive ANCA or repopulation of CD19+ lymphocytes) was associated with a higher but not statistically different relapse rate (17.3%) compared with the approved fixed regimen (9.9%).'” As the anticipated an observed relapse rates differed substantially, the trial was consid-ered underpowered to exclude inferiority of the biomarker-triggered regimen. In view of these uncertainties, this task force favours the use of the 500 mg every 6 months RTX maintenance regimen. The higher dose of 1g or shorter dosing interval o: 4 months or both may be considered for patients who relapse on the 500 mg every 6 months regimen.
directly compared the duration of maintenance regimens and this recommendation has therefore been changed accordingly. n the REMAIN Study, 117 patients received AZA for a total of 24 months after induction therapy with CYC. Patients were then randomised to withdrawal of AZA/GC or continued dosing for an additional 24 months. Those treated for 4years had fewer relapses (22%) than those treated for 2years (63%).'°” Four patients in the withdrawal group developed ESKD versus none in the group treated for another 2years (p=0.012). A meta-analysis of REMAIN and the smaller AZA-ANCA trial concluded that prolonged administration of AZA reduced the risk of relapse.'°? Results of the open-label randomised MAINITSAN-3 trial showed that more patients remain relapse free after an additional 18 months of RTX maintenance therapy than after treatment for only 18 months.'** Prolonged therapy with TX was not associated with an excess of serious adverse events or infections.
"€ZO7 YOR QL UO HO9ZETZ-ZZO7-PIE/YEL LOL SB peysiiqnd jsay :siq wneyy uy 1x9} 0} payejas sasn 410} Bulpnyout ‘}yHiuAdoo Aq pa}0e}01q
RTX impairs humoral responses to vaccination'*?"'** an there is increasing information concerning the risks of secondary immunodeficiency in patients with GPA/MPA receiving RTX.'*5 4° Patients should be counselled about the risk o hypogammaglobulinaemia (see also recommendation no. 14) and further research is required into the safety, duration an dosing of repeated RTX in this disease.
The clinical disease type (GPA vs MPA), ANCA serotype (PR3-ANCA vs MPO-ANCA) and ANCA status (positive vs negative) have all been associated with the risk of relapse. In several studies, a higher risk of relapse was observed in patients with GPA than in patients with MPA.'*"'*! Regardless of the clinical phenotype, patients with positive PR3-ANCA at diagnosis are at higher risk of relapse than those who are MPO-ANCA positive.*? 14° 15¢ 1 165 Persistent ANCA positivity despite clinical remission, '°*'°° or seroconversion from negative to positive ANCA,’ is also each associated with an increased risk of relapse. B cell repopulation within 12 months of RTX!* and persistent haematuria'®’ have been identified as risk factors for relapse in individual studies. The intensity of induction therapy also impacts the risk of relapse. Lower cumulative CYC doses or induction therapy with MTX or MMF instead of CYC have been associated with an increased risk of relapse.”! !°° °° '°8
Evidence regarding the use of conventional immunosuppres-sive agents has not changed substantially since the last update. AZA and MTX are similarly effective maintenance agents in AAV'*’ and can be used if RTX is contraindicated (eg, previous allergic reaction to RTX) or appears inappropriate (eg, urgent need for vaccination, severe hypogammaglobulinaemia). Doses lower than those recommended for AZA and MTX (online supplemental table 1) have been associated with higher relapse rates.'°6'47 '48 MTX can be continued in patients in whom it was used to induce remission. MMF was associated with a higher relapse rate compared with AZA in the only phase III RCT’? and can be considered in patients with intolerance or contrain-dications to RTX, AZA or MTX. In patients with GPA, leflun-omide can be considered in patients with intolerance to all the above-mentioned drugs.'®° Results of two recent meta-analyses revealed that trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (T/S) does not reduce relapse risk in patients with GPA.'*! '? The addition of belimumab to an AZA-based maintenance regimen did not improve relapse-free survival in an RCT, which was stopped early due to slow recruitment and had a low relapse rate in the placebo group, making a positive result with belimumab unlikely to be detected.’
pue
There is low-level to moderate-level evidence that patients with renal-limited vasculitis and patients positive for MPOANCA have a lower relapse risk compared with PR3-ANCA-positive patients and patients with respiratory tract involvement.'® '” In a series of 228 patients with ESKD, the proportion of patients with AAV in remission off immunosup-pression had increased time spent on dialysis and patients were far less likely to relapse from their vasculitis than to display serious infectious or cardiovascular events.'’! Therefore, the benefit of relapse prevention should be weighed against the risk of complications resulting from immunosuppressive therapy in patients with renal-limited MPO-ANCA-associated vasculitis and some task force members do not routinely use maintenance therapy in these patients. Patients with drug-induced AAV rarely relapse and do not require routine immunosuppressive therapy after remission is achieved and the implicated drug is discontinued. !”*
lug psey/:d}jy WO1y papeojuMoOg Is pue ‘Bururesy jy ‘Bululw eyep “sa1Bojouyoe} Je]! ysanB6 Aq gzoz ‘8 Jaquiesdeq uo /WO
Since there is little evidence to guide low-dose GC therapy during remission in AAV,'™* duration and dosage need to be individualised on a shared decision basis, taking into account the patient’s individual disease course, risk for or presence of GC-related comorbidities and patient preferences. There is lower-quality evidence that GC withdrawal increases relapse risk,'** but high-quality prospective studies on the role of GC are yet lacking. Regular screening for GC-related comorbidi-ties during continued low-dose GC therapy is recommended according to EULAR recommendations for monitoring adverse events of low-dose GC therapy.**
In summary, there is no consistent high-quality evidence available to guide decisions about the duration of maintenance therapy based on biomarkers such as ANCA or other factors alone (see also recommendation no. 14).” While there is now consistent evidence from two RCTs that extending maintenance therapy for longer than 24months reduces relapse risk, we recommend considering individual risk factors for relapse and damage as well as patient preferences for decisions about the length of maintenance treatment.
10. We recommend that therapy to maintain remission for GPA and MPA be continued for 24-48 months following induction of remission of new-onset disease. Longer duration of therapy should be considered in relapsing patients or those with an increased risk of relapse, but should be balanced against patient preferences and risks of continuing immunosuppression.
11. For induction of remission in new-onset or relapsing EGPA with organ-threatening or life-threatening manifestations, we recommend treatment with a combination of high-dose GCs and CYC. A combination of high-dose GCs and RTX may be consid-ered as an alternative.
For the 2016 update, this statement was based on low-quality evidence derived from observational studies or long-term follow-up of RCTs.!°5 '55 15° Since then, three trials'’* '°7 '°* have
Hellmich B, et al. Ann Rheum Dis 2024;83:30-47. doi:10.1136/ard-2022-223764

--- Page 10 ---

Recommendation
switched to a less intensive remission maintenance therapy after six pulses of CYC if remission is achieved, and the GC dose is reduced by then to approximately 7.5mg per day (see online supplemental table 2 for protocols).
3x9} 0} payejai sasn 10} Burpnyjout ‘}y61sAdoo Aq peyoej}o1g ‘EzOT YOU 9} UO H9LETZ-~ZZOT-PIE/YEL LOL SB poysi|qnd ys4y :siq wneyy UUY
An RCT examining the use of RTX in EGPA (REOVAS) included 105 patients with new-onset or relapsing EGPA of whom 42 had life-threatening or organ-threatening disease (FFS >1) (abstract).”” Patients with FFS >1 received high-dose GCs plus either 2x1g RTX (days 1 and 15) or nine pulses of CYC over 13 weeks. The primary endpoint of on-treatment remission was reached at similar frequencies at days 180 and 360 in both groups, but the limited number of patients, the superiority design and the lack of fully published results do not allow for strong conclusions regarding non-inferiority. Adverse events, cumulative prednisone doses and quality of life were not different between groups. Results were similar in both newly diagnosed and relapsing disease. In contrast to earlier observational studies,'*! '*? the response to RTX was not higher in MPO-ANCA-positive patients compared with ANCA-negative patients, consistent with consensus recommendations on ANCA testing that treatment decisions in EGPA should not be influenced solely by ANCA status.”° Keeping in mind that the results of the REOVAS trial have not been fully published yet, the data reported so far are deemed sufficiently strong to consider RTX as an alternative to CYC, particularly in patients in which exposure to CYC needs to be avoided, and are consistent with earlier observational reports (see recommendation no. 3).
Figure 3. The 2022 EULAR algorithm for treatment of eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis (EGPA). 'See table 2 for examples of organ/life-threatening and not organ/life-threatening manifestations. *See table 4 for an example of GC dosing (note: validated in MPA and GPA only). 3Consider use of RTX over CYC in patients (m/f) with childbearing potential or previous exposure to CYC at an individual cumulative dosage considered to be associated with an increased risk of complications. “Individualised duration of maintenance treatment. °In patients with relapsing or refractory EGPA without organthreatening manifestations at the time of relapse, MEPO is preferred for maintenance of remission, and AZA, MTX or RTX can be used as alternatives if MEPO is not tolerated or ineffective. AZA, azathioprine; CYC, cyclophosphamide; GC, glucocorticoid; GPA, granulomatosis with polyangiitis; MEPO, mepolizumab; MPA, microscopic polyangiitis; MTX,
In contrast to GPA and MPA, no studies have compared different GC tapering strategies in the treatment of EGPA. In the absence of data to support an evidence-based recommendation on GC tapering in EGPA, recommendations made for GPA and MPA (statement no. 4) can be used as an orientation. However, asthma and ear, nose and throat (ENT) exacerbation increase the GC requirement in patients with EGPA, leading to prolonged tapering.'** Therefore, interdisciplinary management involving pulmonologists and/or otorhinolaryngolgists aimed at optimising treatment (including topical agents) of asthma, polyposis and sinusitis is recommended.
“sa1Hojouyos} sells pue ‘Hujures} jy ‘Gulujw ysenB Aq Szog ‘81 4equiedeq uo /Wwod/wq'pie//:djjYy Woy
methotrexate; RTX, rituximab.
12. For induction of remission in new-onset or relapsing EGPA without organ-threatening or life-threatening manifestations, we recommend treatment with GCs.
Since the last update of these recommendations, results of three RCTs enrolling only or mainly patients with EGPA have been reported,” ”*'” which allowed the development of separate recommendations for EGPA for this update (figure 3).
Patients with EGPA without adverse prognostic factors (FFS=0) treated with GC only achieve remission >90% of the time, but relapses are common once GCs are tapered.'”*'** Therefore, clinicians frequently combine GCs with other immunosup-pressants or biologics. However, the SLR revealed that evidence supporting GC-sparing therapy in newly diagnosed patients with EGPA without organ-threatening or life-threatening manifestations is low.'° A prospective placebo-controlled study showed that therapy with AZA for 1 year in addition to GC had no effect on the risk of relapse, cumulative GC requirement, or the rate of asthma and sinusitis exacerbation compared with GC monotherapy in EGPA without poor prognostic factors (FFS=0).'” Recent long-term study data also showed that, within 5 years, 48% of all patients experienced vasculitis relapses, and prior therapy with AZA did not reduce this risk.'** The REOVAS trial included 63 new-onset or relapsing patients with EGPA with an FFS of 0 who were randomised to receive high-dose GCs together with either 2x1g RTX (days 1 and 15) or placebo. Efficacy and safety outcomes after 180 and 360 days were not different between RTX and placebo group. Because the trial was not designed as a non-inferiority trial and since it has been reported only in abstract format so far, the data preclude from making strong conclusions but provide no support for use of
eyep pue papeojuMOG
The Five Factor Score (FFS) is used for prognostic assessment of EGPA.'™ Particularly, cardiac involvement has been associated with increased mortality in EGPA.*° 17° 16 However, under optimised management in centres of expertise, the prognosis of cardiac involvement appears to be better than previously reported. This may reflect more frequent diagnosis of milder forms of cardiac disease through use of cardiac MRI and greater awareness among physicians regarding cardiac disease in EGPA.'” In a recent series from the French Vasculitis Study Group of 70 patients with EGPA with cardiac manifestations treated with high-dose GC, mostly along with CYC, no patient died as a consequence of cardiac involvement during a 10-year observation period.'”* With the aim of preventing permanent organ damage due to EGPA, patients with severe involvement of the kidneys, central and peripheral nervous system, or gastro-intestinal tract are also considered to be candidates for treatment with CYC (table 2).'”’ In a randomised, open-label trial in patients with EGPA and poor prognosis (FFS =1), 12 compared with 6 pulsed doses of CYC were associated with a lower rate of minor relapses but did not improve response rate or reduce severe relapses.'*° Therefore, we recommend treatment be
Hellmich B, et al. Ann Rheum Dis 2024;83:30—47. doi:10.1136/ard-2022-223764

--- Page 11 ---

Recommendatio
RTX for remission induction in this subgroup of patients. No RCTS are available on the use of MTX, MMF or leflunomide in EGPA. Small observational studies on the use of MTX or MMF did not include control groups and carry a high risk of bias.'** !8° As the evidence to support immunosuppression beyond GCs in new-onset EGPA without risk factors for worse outcome is low,!° decisions on the use of GC-sparing therapy in this subset of patients may be made on an individual basis considering risk factors of GC-related morbidity.
manifestations at the time of relapse, we recommend treatment with mepolizumab. For maintenance of remission of EGPA after induction of remission for organ-threatening or life-threatening disease, treatment with MTX, AZA, mepolizumab or RTX should be considered.
uuy
“EZOZT YON 9} UO H9LETZ-ZZOT-PIE/IEL TOL SB paysiignd js4yj :siq WwNeyy pue 3x9} 0} payejas sasn 10} Burpnjout ‘yyBlAdoo Aq pa}99}01q
In view of the relapsing nature of EGPA requiring long-term use of GCs in most patients, other agents for maintenance of remission are commonly prescribed in an attempt to be GC sparing. In an RCT (MIRRA, see recommendation no. 13 for details) that enrolled patients with EGPA who had relapsing or refractory disease, rates of severe and non-severe relapses were significantly lower and the median GC dose throughout the study was lower in the mepolizumab group compared with the control group.”* Adverse events occurred at similar rates in the mepolizumab group and the placebo group, while serious adverse events were somewhat more common in the placebo group (18% vs 26%). In view of its efficacy and good safety profile, the use of mepolizumab after induction of remission for non-organ-threatening or life-threatening manifestations at the time of relapse is recommended. In an RCT that enrolled 51 patients with EGPA and no organ-threatening or life-threatening manifestations, AZA for lyear in addition to GC had no effect on the risk of relapse, cumulative GC requirement, or the rate of asthma and sinusitis exacerbation compared with GC monotherapy.'”? There is little evidence to recommend routine use of other immunomodulatory agents for maintenance of remission in EGPA without organ-threatening or life-threatening manifestations. '°
13. For induction of remission in patients with relapsing or refractory EGPA without active organ-threatening or lifethreatening disease, we recommend the use of mepolizumab.
The IL-5 inhibitor mepolizumab was evaluated in a randomised double-blind placebo-controlled phase III study (MIRRA) that included 136 patients with relapsing or refractory EGPA with disease duration of at least 6 months.”* The study protocol allowed the inclusion of patients without vasculitic manifes-tations, while patients with active life-threatening or organthreatening manifestations were excluded. After treatment with prednisolone at a stable dose =>7.5 mg per day prior to baseline, 54% of patients in the mepolizumab arm and 71% of patients in the control arm had active disease at randomisation with a Birmingham Vasculitis Activity Score (BVAS) >0. Patients were randomised 1:1 to continuation of standard therapy (including other conventional immunosuppressive agents in more than 50% of patients in each arm) or standard therapy plus mepolizamab at a dose of 300mg subcutaneously every 4 weeks. Both co-primary endpoints (the number of weeks in remission on a prednisolone dose reduced to 4mg and the proportion of patients in remission at weeks 36 and 48) were met in favour of mepolizumab.”* A post-hoc analysis showed that treatment with mepolizumab was associated with additional clinically relevant endpoints, such as remission and GC reduction of >50%, in over half of the patients treated with mepolizumab.'*’ Based on its association with clinically meaningful improvement of disease control and reduction of GC demand, and good safety profile compared with conventional immunosuppressants, this task force recommends the use of mepolizumab with relapsing or refractory, non-organ-threatening or life-threatening EGPA. Mepolizumab has recently been approved for this indication in many European countries. Data from studies using mepolizumab for treatment of life-threatening or organ-threatening or newonset EGPA are currently lacking.’ Other IL-5 IL-5 inhibitors benrali-
The SLR identified only one prospective study addressing remission maintenance strategies in patients with EGPA who attained remission after treatment for life-threatening or organthreatening disease.'? A single-centre prospective randomised trial compared oral CYC with MTX for lyear after remission induction with CYC in different subtypes of AAV.'” In the subgroup of 30 patients with EGPA who had either an FFS >1 or peripheral neuropathy, no difference in relapse rates between the two treatment arms was observed. Although no excess in adverse events was found in this study, we do not recommend CYC for remission maintenance in view of its toxicity. However, this study provides a rationale for use of MTX for maintenance of remission in EGPA, although the small sample size of patients with EGPA precludes a strong recommendation. As observa-tional studies reported favourable outcomes on the use of AZA, mepolizumab and RTX for maintenance of remission,*° '”° these agents can also be considered for remission maintenance in EGPA after induction of remission for organ-threatening or lifethreatening manifestations. In view of its efficacy in eosinophilic asthma, mepolizumab should also be considered for patients with EGPA with residual GC-dependent asthma who achieved remission of major organ involvement.
“Tuig:pse//:dyjy WOsy POpEO|UMOG s pue ‘Burures} jy ‘Buruiw eyep “sa1Hojouyoe} se ysanB6 Aq gzoz ‘8 Jaquiesdeq uo /WO
Other IL-5 or IL-5 receptor inhibitors (reslizumab, benrali-zumab) showed efficacy in small open-label pilot studies in EGPA,'** '8° but data from RCTs using these agents are not yet available. In a retrospective multicentre series, anti-IgE-targete therapy with omalizumab appeared to be less effective than mepolizumab.'”’ As discussed above, data showing improve outcomes with other biological or conventional drugs for non-severe relapsing or refractory EGPA are lacking. In patients for whom mepolizumab is not effective or not tolerated, AZA, MTX, MMF or RTX can be considered on an individual basis, 184-186 190-192
15. In the management of patients with AAV, we recommend that structured clinical assessment, rather than ANCA and/or CD19+ Bcell testing alone, should inform decisions on changes in treatment.
This recommendation (former statement no. 10) has been amended to include CD19+ Bcell testing but is otherwise unchanged as data from recent RCTs have confirmed earlier studies on this topic. Although ANCA status is associated with relapse,'® '°*'°6 prospective trials on maintenance of remission showed conflicting results in ANCA status or CD19+ Bcell counts to predict future relapses at a level deemed insuffi-cient to guide treatment decisions for individual patients.'** '*” Administration of RTX for maintenance of remission based on changes of ANCA status and/or B cell counts was associated with
A true refractory course of EGPA with life-threatening an organ-threatening manifestations is rare if patients are treate with high-dose GC and a CYC-based or RTX-based induction regimen.” '*° Data guiding treatment decisions in this small subgroup of patients are scarce, and true refractory severe EGPA needs to be carefully distinguished from infections and comorbidities. Therefore, patients with suspected refractory severe EGPA should be managed at centres of expertise.
14. For maintenance of remission of relapsing EGPA after induction of remission for non-organ-threatening or life-threatening
Hellmich B, et al. Ann Rheum Dis 2024;83:30-47. doi:10.1136/ard-2022-223764

--- Page 12 ---

anon-significantly higher rate of relapses compared with regular treatment at a 6-month interval, while adverse events occurred at a similar rate.'*” Regarding the role of ANCA measurements for monitoring in AAV, we also refer readers to the recent international consensus statements on ANCA testing.’ 7° Further prospective studies are clearly necessary to identify predictive markers of relapse.
between MTX and T/S at prophylactic doses,””” but data on the safety of this combination in patients with rheumatic diseases are lacking. While there are insufficient data to guide the total duration of prophylaxis with T/S, it seems reasonable to continue this drug for the estimated duration of the biological effect of CYC and RTX of around 3 and 6 months after the last dose or B cell reconstitution, respectively. For patients treated with GCs in combination with immunosuppressants other than CYC or RTX, T/S may be stopped once GC doses have been tapered to 15 mg/ day, but that strong consideration should be given to continuing it until lower doses are achieved if other risk factors such as pulmonary disease or hypogammaglobulinaemia are present.2°° Patients who develop adverse reactions often tolerate re-introduction of T/S if the dose is gradually increased according to published regimens.” *'° Alternatives for patients who cannot tolerate T/S are dapsone,”'! atovaquone*'* *!* or aerosolised pentamidine.”
“EZOZT YON 9} UO H9LETZ-ZZOT-PIE/IEL TOL SB paysiignd js4yj :siq WwNeyy uuy 3x9} 0} payejas sasn 10} Burpnjout ‘yyBlAdoo Aq pa}99}01q
As AAV involves multiple organs and relapses are frequent, a structured clinical assessment during follow-up at regular intervals is recommended. The BVAS'®” has been used in different variants in the majority of RCTs in AAV and can be helpful in clinical practice to document response to treatment in a system-atic fashion. Damage resulting from AAV or its treatment needs to be distinguished from active disease to avoid unnecessarily escalating treatment. The Vasculitis Damage Index'”® is a validated instrument to record damage in AAV and provides definitions that help distinguish damage from active disease.
16. In patients with AAV receiving RTX, we recommend measurement of serum immunoglobulin concentrations prior to each course of RTX to detect secondary immunodeficiency.
Vaccinations are an integral part of infection prophylaxis in patients with autoimmune diseases receiving immunosuppres-sive therapy. Since the approach to vaccination in patients with AAV does not differ from other rheumatic diseases treated with a similar intensity of immunosuppression, we refer to the 2019 EULAR recommendations for vaccination in adult patients with autoimmune inflammatory rheumatic diseases and local guidelines.?'®
The SLR revealed no data published since the last update that suggested a change of this recommendation,'? but wording has been rephrased to highlight the purpose of immunoglob-ulin measurement. Results of the MAINRITSAN-3 Study have shown that long-term treatment of patients with GPA or MPA with RTX over 36 months was associated with the development of hypogammaglobulinaemia (IgG <5 g/L) in 21% of patients, confirming earlier reports on decreased IgG levels following treatment with RTX or CYC in AAV.'*? *°° For further details on risk factors for secondary immunodeficiency after RTX, monitoring, indications, dosage and discontinuation of immunoglob-ulin replacement therapy, we refer readers to evidence-based 201 consensus recommendations.
DISCUSSION
Since the publication of the 2016 EULAR recommendations on the management of AAV, several high-quality RCTs have expanded our knowledge about these complex diseases and allowed updates of previous recommendations. We have made substantial alterations, including the introduction of overarching principles and new recommendations on ANCA testing, therapy with GC, use of agents with novel modes of action (CS5aR inhibition, IL-5 blockade) and prophylaxis against infections. While most of the original recommendations addressed AAV in general, new data allowed us to devise separate recommendations for GPA/MPA and EGPA for some management principles.
17. For patients with AAV receiving RIX, CYC andlor high doses of GCs, we recommend the use of T/S as prophylaxis against Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia (PJP) and other infections.
“Tuig:pse//:dyjy WOsy POpEO|UMOG s pue ‘Burures} jy ‘Buruiw eyep “sa1Hojouyoe} se ysanB6 Aq gzoz ‘8 Jaquiesdeq uo /WO
This is a new recommendation based on results of an observational study in 192 patients with AAV treated with RTX, showing that the prophylactic use of T/S was associated with a lower frequency of severe infections (HR 0.30, 95% CI 0.13 to 0.69).”° In an earlier RCT investigating the role of T/S in therapeutic dosage (960 mg two times per day for 2 years), a reduction in respiratory tract infections and a trend towards fewer non-respiratory tract infections compared with placebo had been observed.”° Thus, available evidence suggests that T/S not only reduces the risk of PJP, but is also associated with a reduction of the overall risk of infection. T/S also reduced the 1-year incidence of PJP and related mortality in a cohort of 1092 patients with various rheumatic diseases treated with =>30 prednisolone mg/day for =>4 weeks.*™ For patients treated with > 15-<30 mg/ day of prednisone for >4 weeks, the risk of PJP and benefit of T/S are lower, but in a subgroup of patients with lymphopenia at baseline and those receiving GC pulse treatment, the number needed to treat to prevent one PJP was lower than the number needed to harm by serious adverse events.*”° As infections are the leading cause of death within the first year of induction therapy in patients with AAV,°° infection prophylaxis with T/S (800/160 mg on alternate days or 400/80mg daily) is recommended for all patients with AAV receiving CYC or RTX and patients where treatment with GCs at a dose of =30 mg/day for 4weeks or longer is envisioned, irrespective of other concomi-tant immunosuppressants. Although there have been concerns about synergistic toxicities to T/S given at therapeutic doses and MTX, recent studies found no evidence for an interaction
Given the complexity and variability of multiorgan involvement in AAV, we emphasise that these recommendations are not intended to propose a ‘one-size-fits-all’ strategy. Comorbidities, the individual patient’s history, toxicities, local availability and costs of medication, and patient preferences should all be consid-ered in the process of informed decision-making. High-quality evidence of management of AAV in pregnancy is lacking and we refer readers to EULAR recommendations for the management of family planning, assisted reproduction, pregnancy, and menopause in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus and other rheumatic diseases.”"° 7!” In addition, many of the organ manifestations such as severe kidney disease, MPO-ANCA-associated interstitial lung disease, bronchial/subglottic stenosis, orbital mass, severe ENT manifestations, cardiac involvement in EGPA and central nervous system disease or vasculitic neuropathy may require specific pharmacological and non-pharmacological interventions. Recognition and supportive management of organ damage is another important aspect. However, the level of evidence guiding management of these organ manifestations or organ damage in AAV is mostly low. Thus, it was beyond the scope and format of these EULAR recommendations to specifi-cally address these important areas of management.
pue
The COVID-19 pandemic has had a major impact on patients with AAV and influences their management.”'* In the light of changing virus variants, availability of vaccinations and antiviral
Hellmich B, et al. Ann Rheum Dis 2024;83:30—47. doi:10.1136/ard-2022-223764

--- Page 13 ---

be outdated at the time these recommendations are published. Instead, we refer to the most recent national guidelines and EULAR points to consider on the use of immunomodulatory therapies and vaccinations in COVID-19.?"” ”°
Box 1 Research agenda
A. Diagnosis and classification
UUY
= Develop data-driven diagnostic criteria for AAV.
= Develop data-driven definitions for disease activity states (remission, response, relapse) and standardisation of outcome measures, including patient-reported outcomes, for use in trials in AAV.
pue 3x9} 0} payejai sasn 10} Burpnyjout ‘}y61sAdoo Aq peyoej}o1g ‘EzOT YOU 9} UO H9LETZ-~ZZOT-PIE/YEL LOL SB poysi|qnd ys4y :siq wneyy
Given the relative rarity of AAV and the limitations of the published studies, particularly in terms of outcome assessment and long-term follow-up, important questions remain unanswered. We have listed key issues in a research agenda (box 1) and encourage investigators to use them as a basis for conducting future high-quality research in the field of AAV.
= Develop data-driven definitions of disease subtypes of importance.
In conclusion, we substantially revised the recommendations for the management of AAV. Despite progress over the past 10years, we acknowledge that some recommendations had to be made based on low-quality evidence. Nevertheless, the level of agreement for each recommendation was consistently high among the task force members. We encourage clinicians to implement these recommendations into their clinical practice to effectively manage AAV and to improve the patients’ quality of care.
= Identify reliable biomarkers and risk factors for relapsing disease and damage.
= Identify reliable biomarkers including imaging and biopsies to assess subclinical disease activity and monitor treatment response.
B, Treatment
= Evaluate benefits and harms of higher-dose GC therapy (eg, intravenous MP) compared with standard starting dosing (1 mg/kg/day) for patients with different subtypes, severity stages and risk factors for adverse outcomes.
Author affiliations
‘Klinik fir Innere Medizin, Rheumatologie und Immunologie, Medius Kliniken,
Akademisches Lehrkrankenhaus der Universitat Tubingen, Kirchheim unter Teck, Germany *Nephrology Department, Hospital Universitario del Sureste, Arganda del Rey, Spain 3Rheumatology & Clinical Immunology and Cluster of Excellence Precision Medicine in Chronic Inflammation, University Medical Center Schleswig-Holstein, Campus Kiel, Kiel, Germany 4CIBIO, Universita degli Studi di Trento, Trento, Italy >Rheumatology, Santa Chiara Hospital, Trento, Italy “Department of Internal Medicine, University Hospital of Leuven, Leuven, Belgium ‘Department of Autoimmune Diseases, Hospital Clinic, University of Barcelona, Institut d'Investigacions Biomédiques August Pi | Sunyer (IDIBAPS), Barcelona, Spain ®Rheumazentrum Schleswig-Holstein Mitte, Neumuenster, Germany °Division of Rheumatology, Department of Internal Medicine, Vasculitis Research Center, Hacettepe University School of Medicine, Anakra, Turkey ‘Department of Internal Medicine IV, Medical University, Innsbruck, Austria "Department of Medicine, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK "Trinity Health Kidney Centre, Trinity College Dublin, Dublin, ireland "Nuffield Department of Orthopaedics, Rheumatology and Musculoskeletal Science (NDORMs), University of Oxford, Oxford, UK “Klinik fir Rheumatologie, Kantonspital St Gallen, St Gallen, Switzerland "Division of Rheumatology, Department of Medicine, Division of Epidemiology, Department of Biostatistics, Epidemiology, and Informatics, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA "Department of Clinical Sciences, Lund University & Department of Rheumatology, Skane Hospital, Lund, Sweden "Department of Internal Medicine and Therapeutics, Universita di Pavia, Pavia, Italy 'SDivision of Rheumatology, Fondazione IRCCS Policlinico San Matteo, Pavia, Italy "Vasculitis Service, Rheumatology Department, Norfolk and Norwich University Hospital NHS Trust, Norwich, UK *°2nd Department of Internal Medicine, Jagiellonian University Medical College, Krakow, Poland *'Division of Nephrology, Department of Clinical Sciences, Lund University, Skane University Hospital, Lund, Sweden Centre of Expertise for Lupus-, Vasculitis-, and Complement-Mediated Systemic Autoimmune Diseases (LuVaCs), Department of Internal Medicine, Section Nephrology, Leiden University Medical Centre, Leiden, The Netherlands National Referral Center for Rare Systemic Autoimmune Diseases, Université Paris Descartes, Hopital Cochin, Assistance Publique-Hépitaux de Paris (APHP), Paris, France *4Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Faculty of Medicine, University of Iceland, Reykjavik, Iceland *>Department of Rheumatology and Centre for Rheumatology Research, University Hospital Reykjavik, Reykjavik, Iceland *6Nephrology Unit, Meyer Children’s Hospital, and Department of Biomedical, Experimental and Clinical Science, University of Florence, Florence, Italy 272nd Department of Medicine and Laboratory, Clinical Immunology-Rheumatology Unit, National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, School of Medicine, Hippokration General Hospital, Athens, Greece *8Dutch Patient Vasculitis Organization, Haarlem, The Netherlands
= Evaluate benefits and harms of reduced starting doses of GC (eg, 0.5 mg/day) compared with standard starting doses (1 mg/kg/day) in patients with different ANCA subtypes, severity stages and risk factors for adverse outcomes.
Investigate optimal duration of therapy with GC.
Study benefit of the combination of RTX and CYC versus RTX only. uu
= Investigate the safety and optimum schedule of repeat-dose RTX maintenance therapy.
= Investigate the effect of immunomodulators with novel modes of action (eg, JAK inhibitors).
= Study long-term outcomes after induction therapy with avacopan and its efficacy for maintenance therapy, in combination with and/or compared with standard therapy.
“sa1Hojouyos} sells pue ‘Hujures} jy ‘Gulujw eyep ysenB Aq Szog ‘81 4equiedeq uo /Wwod/wq'pie//:djjYy Woy papeojuMOG
= Further study the potential of C5a blockade to fully replace GCs for induction of remission and for extended use.
= Study efficacy and safety of IL-5 inhibitors in newly diagnosed patients with EGPA and patients with organ-threatening manifestations compared with other types of induction therapy (CYC, RTX).
= Study maintenance therapies for EGPA.
= Study the optimal duration and dosage of T/S or other agents for prophylaxis against infection.
= Management of AAV during conception and pregnancy and potential impact on fertility.
C. Long-term outcome and biomarkers
= Identify biomarkers to predict drug toxicity.
= Identify predictors for good response, remission or relapse.
= Define and validate use of patient-reported outcomes for management of AAV in clinical practice.
= Study the impact of long-term GC therapy on GC-related adverse effects and comorbidities.
AAV, ANCA-associated vasculitis; ANCA, antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody; CYC, cyclophosphamide; EGPA, eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis; GC, glucocorticoid; IL-5, interleukin 5; MP, methylprednisolone; RTX, rituximab; T/S, trimethoprim—sulfamethoxazole.
treatments, conditions affecting the management of patients with AAV in the pandemic change rapidly. Therefore, specific recommendations for management of patients with AAV in the pandemic are beyond the scope of this project, since these would
Twitter Andreas Kronbichler @AKronbichler, Mark A Little @thkc1 and Chetan B Mukhtyar @cmukhtyar
Hellmich B, et al. Ann Rheum Dis 2024;83:30-47. doi:10.1136/ard-2022-223764

--- Page 14 ---

Recommendatio
Acknowledgements The authors wish to thank the librarian Oliver Weiner (Medical Department of the Kiel University Library, Kiel, Germany) for advice and assistance during the SLR. DJ was supported by the NIHR Cambridge Biomedical Research Centre.
Sara Monti http://orcid.org/0000-0002-1800-6772 Chetan B Mukhtyar http://orcid.org/0000-0002-9771-6667 Y K Onno Teng http://orcid.org/0000-0001-9920-2195 Benjamin Terrier http://orcid.org/0000-0001-6612-7336 Gunnar Tomasson http://orcid.org/0000-0002-1797-7091 Augusto Vaglio http://orcid.org/0000-0002-3814-9172 Dimitrios Vassilopoulos http://orcid.org/0000-0003-2288-3863 David Jayne http://orcid.org/0000-0002-1712-0637
3x9} 0} payejai sasn 10} Burpnyjout ‘}y61sAdoo Aq peyoej}o1g ‘EzOT YOU 9} UO H9LETZ-~ZZOT-PIE/YEL LOL SB poysi|qnd ys4y :siq wneyy UUY
Contributors The task force consisted of 20 clinical experts including theumatologists (MCC, BH, JH, OK, RAL, AM, CBM, JM, PM, GT, DV), internists (AJM, DB, BT) and nephrologists (AK, MAL, MS, YKOT, AV, DJ), from 15 European countries and the USA (PM), 2 methodologists (RAL, GT), convenor (BH) and co-convenor (DJ), 2 delegates of the EULAR young rheumatologists’ network EMEUNET (AB, SM), 2 fellows (BS-A, JHS), 1 health professional (NH) and 2 patient representatives (PV, FP-K). All task force members were involved in preparing the project outline. BH drafted the first version of the manuscript. DJ, the methodologist and other steering committee members revised the manuscript before it was sent to the task force. All task force members made edits and comments and approved the final version.
REFERENCES
1 Suppiah R, Robson JC, Grayson PC, et a/. 2022 American College of rheumatology/ european alliance of associations for rheumatology classification criteria for microscopic polyangiitis. Ann Rheum Dis 2022;81:321-6.
2 Robson JC, Grayson PC, Ponte C, et a/. 2022 American College of rheumatology/ european alliance of associations for rheumatology classification criteria for granulomatosis with polyangiitis. Ann Rheum Dis 2022;81:315-20.
Funding Funding was provided by the EULAR.
Competing interests AB received honoraria for consulting from GSK. AJM received speaker fees and/or consultancies from Amgen, Lilly, Vifor, Roche and
3 Grayson PC, Ponte C, Suppiah R, et al. 2022 American College of rheumatology/ european alliance of associations for rheumatology classification criteria for eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis. Ann Rheum Dis 2022;81:309-14.
GSK. AJM received speaker fees and/or consultancies from Amgen, Celgene, Chugai, Novartis, Roche and Vifor. AK received speaker fees and/or consultancies from Catalyst Biosciences, Walden Bioscience, Delta4, Otsuka, UriSalt and Vifor. BH received speaker fees and/or consultancies from AbbVie, Amgen, AstraZeneca, BMS, Boehringer, Chugai, GSK, InflaRx, Janssen, MSD, Pfizer, Novartis, Phadia, Roche and Vifor. BT received consulting fees from AstraZeneca, GlaxoSmithKline, Vifor and Pharma. DB received consultancies from Roche. DJ received speaker fees and/or consultancies from Amgen, AstraZeneca, BMS, Boehringer, Chemocentryx, Chugai, GSK, Novartis, Roche, Takeda and Vifor. DV received speaker fees and/ or consultancies and/or grants from AbbVie, Genesis-Pharma, Janssen, Lilly, MSD, Novartis, Pfizer, Roche and UCB. The work is supported by the Greek Rheumatology Society and Professional Association of Rheumatologists (ERE-EPERE) and the Special Account for Research Grants (SARG), National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, Greece. JHS received research grants from the John Grube Foundation and the Deutsche Gesellschaft fiir Rheumatologie (German Society for Rheumatology). MAL received unrestricted research funding and consultancy fees from Vifor with Chemocentryx. MCC received consulting fees from GSK, Vifor, AbbVie and Janssen, and a research grant from Kiniksa Pharmaceuticals. MS has received consultancy fees from Hansa Biopharma, Vifor, AstraZeneca, Toleranzia and Chemocentryx. PM reports receiving funds for the following activities in the past 2 years: consulting: AbbVie, AstraZeneca, Boehringer-Ingelheim, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Chemocentryx, CSL Behring, Dynacure, EMDSerono, Forbius, Genentech/Roche, Genzyme/Sanofi, GlaxoSmithKline, Immagene, InflaRx, Janssen, Kiniksa, Kyverna, Magenta, MiroBio, Mitsubishi, Neutrolis, Novartis, NS Pharma, Pfizer, Regeneron, Sparrow, Takeda and Talaris; research support: AbbVie, AstraZeneca, Boehringer-Ingelheim, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Chemocentryx, Eicos, Electra, Forbius, Genentech/Roche, Genzyme/Sanofi, GlaxoSmithKline, InflaRx, Sanofi and Takeda; stock options: Kyverna. OK reports receiving speaking fees and/or consultancies from Amgen, AbbVie, Lilly, UCBPharma, Novartis, Celltrion; and research support from AbbVie, Viela-Bio, Roche ind Novartis. RAL received speaker fees and/or consultancies and/or grants from AbbVie, BMS/Celgene, Chemocentryx, Chugai, GSK, InflaRx, Pfizer Global, Roche and Vifor. The LUMC received on behalf of YKOT an unrestricted research grant from CSL Vifor, GlaxoSmithKline, Aurinia Pharmaceuticals. The LUMC received consulting fees from Aurinia Pharmaceuticals, Novartis, GSK, KezarBio, Vifor Pharma and Otsuka Pharmaceuticals on consultancies delivered by YKOT. The work of YKOT is supported by the Dutch Kidney Foundation (170KG04) and by the Arthritis Research and Collaboration Hub (ARCH) foundation. ARCH is funded by Dutch Arthritis Foundation (ReumaNederland). AV, BS-A, CBM, FP-K, GT, JH, JM, NH, PV and SM reported no conflicts of interest. @
4. Jennette JC, Falk RJ, Bacon PA, et a/. 2012 revised international chapel hill consensus conference nomenclature of vasculitides. Arthritis Rheum 2013;65:1-11.
5 Mukhtyar C, Guillevin L, Cid MC, et a/. EULAR recommendations for the management of primary small and medium vessel vasculitis. Ann Rheum Dis 2009;68:310-7.
6 Yates M, Watts RA, Bajema IM, et a/. EULAR/ERA-EDTA recommendations for the management of ANCA-associated vasculitis. Ann Rheum Dis 2016;75:1583-94.
7 van der Heijde D, Aletaha D, Carmona L, et al. 2014 update of the EULAR standardised operating procedures for EULAR-endorsed recommendations. Ann Rheum Dis 2015;74:8-13.
8 Brouwers MC, Kho ME, Browman GP, et a/. Agree Il: advancing Guideline development, reporting and evaluation in health care. J Clin Epidemiol 2010;63:1308-11.
9 Schirmer J, Sanchez-Alamo B, Monti S, et a/. POSO830 SYSTEMATIC literature review informing the 2022 update of the eular recommendations for the management of ANCA-associated vasculitis: focus on treatment strategies. Ann Rheum Dis 2022;81:706.
10 Sanchez-Alamo B, Schirmer JH, Hellmich B, et a/. Systematic literature review informing the 2022 update of the EULAR recommendations for the management of ANCA-associated vasculitis (AAV): part 2 - treatment of eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis and diagnosis and general management of AAV. 2023.
pue
11. Hellmich B, Flossmann O, Gross WL, et al. EULAR recommendations for conducting clinical studies and/or clinical trials in systemic vasculitis: focus on anti-neutrophil cytoplasm antibody-associated vasculitis. Ann Rheum Dis 2007;66:605-17.
“sa1Hojouyos} sells pue ‘Hujures} jy ‘Gulujw eyep ysenB Aq Szog ‘81 4equiedeq uo /Wwod/wq'pie//:djjYy Woy papeojuMOG
12 Gopaluni S, Flossmann O, Little MA, et al. Effect of disease activity at three and six months after diagnosis on long-term outcomes in antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody-associated vasculitis. Arthritis Rheumatol 2019;71:784-91.
13 Chung SA, Langford CA, Maz M, et a/. 2021 American College of rheumatology/ vasculitis Foundation guideline for the management of antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody-associated vasculitis. Arthritis Rheumatol 2021;73:1366-83.
14 Mendel A, Ennis D, Go E, et al. CanVasc consensus recommendations for the management of antineutrophil cytoplasm antibody-associated vasculitis: 2020 update. J Rheumatol 2021;48:555-66.
15. Dirikgil E, Tas SW, Rutgers A, et a/. A Dutch consensus statement on the diagnosis and treatment of ANCA-associated vasculitis. Neth J Med 2020;78:71-82.
16 Terrier B, Darbon R, Durel C-A, et a/. French recommendations for the management of systemic necrotizing vasculitides (polyarteritis nodosa and ANCA-associated vasculitides). Orphanet J Rare Dis 2020;15:351.
Patient consent for publication Not required.
17 Mukhtyar C, Mills J, Scott DGI. The nose is an organ too. Rheumatology (Oxford) 2020;59:1196-7.
Ethics approval Not applicable.
18 Miloslavsky EM, Specks U, Merkel PA, et a/. Outcomes of nonsevere relapses in antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody-associated vasculitis treated with glucocorticoids. Arthritis Rheumatol 2015;67:1629-36.
Provenance and peer review Not commissioned; externally peer reviewed.
Supplemental material This content has been supplied by the author(s). It has not been vetted by BMJ Publishing Group Limited (BIWJ) and may not have been peer-reviewed. Any opinions or recommendations discussed are solely those of the author(s) and are not endorsed by BMJ. BMJ disclaims all liability and responsibility arising from any reliance placed on the content. Where the content includes any translated material, BMJ does not warrant the accuracy and reliability of the translations (including but not limited to local regulations, clinical guidelines, terminology, drug names and drug dosages), and is not responsible for any error and/or omissions arising from translation and adaptation or otherwise.
19 Jayne DRW, Merkel PA, Schall TJ, et a/. Avacopan for the treatment of ANCA-associated vasculitis. N Eng! J Med 2021;384:599-609.
20 Smith RM, Jones RB, Specks U, ef a/. Rituximab as therapy to induce remission after relapse in ANCA-associated vasculitis. Ann Rheum Dis 2020;79:1243-9.
21. Jones RB, Hiemstra TF, Ballarin J, et a/. Mycophenolate mofetil versus cyclophosphamide for remission induction in ANCA-associated vasculitis: a randomised, non-inferiority trial. Ann Rheum Dis 2019;78:399-405.
22. Hellmich B, Agueda A, Monti S, et a/. 2018 update of the EULAR recommendations for the management of large vessel vasculitis. Ann Rheum Dis 2020;79:19-30.
23 Smolen JS, Landewé RBM, Bergstra SA, et a/. EULAR recommendations for the management of rheumatoid arthritis with synthetic and biological disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs: 2022 update. Ann Rheum Dis 2023;82:3-18.
ORCID iDs
Bernhard Hellmich http://orcid.org/0000-0002-8014-1801 Alvise Berti http://orcid.org/0000-0002-7831-921X Maria C Cid http://orcid.org/0000-0002-4730-0938 Peter A Merkel http://orcid.org/0000-0001-9284-7345 Aladdin J Mohammad http://orcid.org/0000-0002-7 169-6936
24 Ramiro S, Nikiphorou E, Sepriano A, et a/. ASAS-EULAR recommendations for the management of axial spondyloarthritis: 2022 update. Ann Rheum Dis 2023;82:19-34.
Hellmich B, et al. Ann Rheum Dis 2024;83:30—47. doi:10.1136/ard-2022-223764

--- Page 15 ---

Recommendation
25 Herlyn K, Gross WL, Reinhold-Keller E. Longitudinal effects of structured patient education programs for vasculitis patients. 7 Rheumatol 2008;67:206-10.
wo Nu Watts R, Lane S, Hanslik T, et a/. Development and validation of a consensus methodology for the classification of the ANCA-associated vasculitides and polyarteritis nodosa for epidemiological studies. Ann Rheum Dis 2007;66:222-7.
26 Garbe N, Schafer C, Pilz A, et a/. The impact of a structured one-day seminar on disease-specific knowledge, lifestyle habits and disease impairment in ANCA-associated vasculitis. Results of a randomized, controlled study. Scand J Rheumatol 2023;52:69-76.
53 Mohammad AJ, Mortensen KH, Babar J, et a/. Pulmonary involvement in antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies (ANCA) -associated vasculitis: the influence of ANCA subtype. J Rheumatol 2017;44:1458-67
uy
54 Suzuki A, Sakamoto S, Kurosaki A, et a/. Chest high-resolution CT findings of microscopic polyangiitis: a Japanese first nationwide prospective cohort study. AJR Am J Roentgenol 2019;213:104—-14.
27 Knight A, Askling J, Granath F, et a/. Urinary bladder cancer in Wegener's granulomatosis: risks and relation to cyclophosphamide. Ann Rheum Dis 2004;63:1307-11
"€ZO7 YOR QL UO HO9ZETZ-ZZO7-PIE/YEL LOL SB peysiiqnd jsay :siq wneyy pue 1x9} 0} payejas sasn 410} Bulpnyout ‘}yHiuAdoo Aq pa}0e}01q
55 Baqir M, Yi EE, Colby TV, et a/. Radiologic and pathologic characteristics of myeloperoxidase-antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody-associated interstitial lung disease: a retrospective analysis. Sarcoidosis Vasc Diffuse Lung Dis 2019;36:195-201.
28 Houben E, Mendel A, Carette S, et a/. Predictors of fatal and non-fatal cardiovascular events in ANCA-associated vasculitis: data from the Toronto canvasc cohort. Joint Bone Spine 2020;87:221-4.
29 Suppiah R, Judge A, Batra R, et a/. A model to predict cardiovascular events in patients with newly diagnosed Wegener's granulomatosis and microscopic polyangiitis. Arthritis Care Res (Hoboken) 2011;63:588-96.
56 Choi YH, Im JG, Han BK, et a/. Thoracic manifestation of Churg-Strauss syndrome: radiologic and clinical findings. Chest 2000;117:117-24.
57 Dunogué B, Terrier B, Cohen P, et a/. Impact of cardiac magnetic resonance imaging on eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis outcomes: a long-term retrospective study on 42 patients. Autoimmun Rev 2015;14:774-80.
30 Robson J, Doll H, Suppiah R, et a/. Damage in the ANCA-associated vasculitides: long-term data from the European vasculitis Study Group (EUVAS) therapeutic trials. Ann Rheum Dis 2015;74:177-84.
58 Klink T, Holle J, Laudien M, et a/. Magnetic resonance imaging in patients with granulomatosis with polyangiitis (Wegener's) and subglottic stenosis. MAGMA 2013;26:281-90.
31 Drosos GC, Vedder D, Houben E, et a/. EULAR recommendations for cardiovascular tisk management in rheumatic and musculoskeletal diseases, including systemic lupus erythematosus and antiphospholipid syndrome. Ann Rheum Dis 2022;81:768-79.
59 Henes FO, Laudien M, Linsenhoff L, et a/. Accuracy of magnetic resonance imaging for grading of subglottic stenosis in patients with granulomatosis with polyangiitis: correlation with pulmonary function tests and laryngoscopy. Arthritis Care Res (Hoboken) 2018;70:777-84.
32. Agca R, Heslinga SC, Rollefstad S, et a/. EULAR recommendations for cardiovascular disease risk management in patients with rheumatoid arthritis and other forms of inflammatory joint disorders: 2015/2016 update. Ann Rheum Dis 2017;76:17-28.
60 Tan LT, Davagnanam |, Isa H, ef a/. Clinical and imaging features predictive of orbital granulomatosis with polyangiitis and the risk of systemic involvement. Ophthalmology 2014;121:1304-9.
33 Duru N, van der Goes MC, Jacobs JWG, et al. EULAR evidence-based and consensus-based recommendations on the management of medium to high-dose glucocorticoid therapy in rheumatic diseases. Ann Rheum Dis 2013;72:1905-13.
61 Nelson DR, Johnson GB, Cartin-Ceba R, et a/. Characterization of F-18 fluorodeoxyglucose PET/CT in granulomatosis with polyangiitis. Sarcoidosis Vasc Diffuse Lung Dis 2016;32:342-52.
34 van der Goes MC, Jacobs JWG, Boers M, et a/. Monitoring adverse events of low-dose glucocorticoid therapy: EULAR recommendations for clinical trials and daily practice. Ann Rheum Dis 2010;69:1913-9.
62 Ozmen , Tatci E, Gokcek A, et a/. Integration of 2-deoxy-2- [ 18F ] fluoro-D-glucose PET/CT into clinical management of patients with Wege’er's granulomatosis. Ann Nucl Med 2013;27:907-15.
35 Lems WF, Dreinhéfer KE, Bischoff-Ferrari H, et al. EULAR/EFORT recommendations for management of patients older than 50 years with a fragility fracture and prevention of subsequent fractures. Ann Rheum Dis 2017;76:802-10.
63 Ito K, Minamimoto R, Yamashita H, et a/. Evaluation of Wegener's granulomatosis using 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography/computed tomography. Ann Nucl Med 2013;27:209-16.
36 Moosig F, Bremer JP, Hellmich B, et a/. A vasculitis centre based management strategy leads to improved outcome in eosinophilic granulomatosis and polyangiitis (Churg-Strauss, EGPA): monocentric experiences in 150 patients. Ann Rheum Dis 2013;72:1011-7.
64 Pagnoux C, Mahr A, Cohen P, et al. Presentation and outcome of gastrointestinal involvement in systemic necrotizing vasculitides: analysis of 62 patients with polyarteritis nodosa, microscopic polyangiitis, Wegener granulomatosis, ChurgStrauss syndrome, or rheumatoid arthritis-associated vasculitis. Medicine (Baltimore) 2005;84:115-28.
37 Holle JU, Gross WL, Latza U, et al. Improved outcome in 445 patients with Wegener's granulomatosis in a German vasculitis center over four decades. Arthritis Rheum 2011;63:257-66.
papeojuMoOg ‘Bululw eyep
65 Quinn KA, Gelbard A, Sibley C, et a/. Subglottic stenosis and endobronchial disease in granulomatosis with polyangiitis. Rheumatology (Oxford) 2019;58:2203-11.
38 Schirmer JH, Wright MN, Vonthein R, et a/. Clinical presentation and long-term outcome of 144 patients with microscopic polyangiitis in a monocentric German cohort. Rheumatology (Oxford) 2016;55:7 1-9.
66 Terrier B, Dechartres A, Girard C, et a/. Granulomatosis with polyangiitis: endoscopic management of tracheobronchial stenosis: results from a multicentre experience. Rheumatology (Oxford) 2015;54:1852-7.
39 Kronbichler A, Jayne DRW. Estimating the epidemiology of anti-neutrophil cytoplasm antibody-associated renal vasculitis and the role of histologic chronicity in predicting renal outcomes. Nephrol Dial Transplant 2019;34:1429-32.
67 Bossuyt X, Cohen Tervaert J-W, Arimura Y, et al. Position paper: revised 2017 international consensus on testing of ANCAs in granulomatosis with polyangiitis and microscopic polyangiitis. Nat Rev Rheumatol 2017;13:683-92.
lug psey/:d}jy WO1y Is pue ‘Bururesy jy “sa1Bojouyoe} Je]! ysanB Aq gzog ‘g} 4equieoegq uo /WO
40 Berden AE, Ferrario F, Hagen EC, et a/. Histopathologic classification of ANCA-associated glomerulonephritis. J Am Soc Nephrol 2010;21:1628-36.
68 Moiseev S, Cohen Tervaert JW, Arimura Y, et a/. 2020 international consensus on ANCA testing beyond systemic vasculitis. Autoimmun Rev 2020;19:102618.
41 Casal Moura M, Fervenza FC, Specks U, et al. Kidney biopsy chronicity grading in antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody-associated vasculitis. Nephro/ Dial Transplant 2022;37:1710-21
69 Damoiseaux J, Csernok E, Rasmussen N, et a/. Detection of antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies (ANCAs): a multicentre European vasculitis Study Group (EUVAS) evaluation of the value of indirect immunofluorescence (IIF) versus antigen-specific immunoassays. Ann Rheum Dis 2017;76:647-53
42 van Daalen EE, Wester Trejo MAC, Géceroglu A, et al. Developments in the histopathological classification of ANCA-associated glomerulonephritis. Clin J Am Soc Nephrol 2020;15:1103-11.
70 Holle JU, Gross WL, Holl-Ulrich K, et a/. Prospective long-term follow-up of patients with localised Wegener's granulomatosis: does it occur as persistent disease stage? Ann Rheum Dis 2010;69:1934-9.
43 Bjorneklett R, Sriskandarajah S, Bostad L. Prognostic value of histologic classification of ANCA-associated glomerulonephritis. Clin J Am Soc Nephrol 2016;11:2159-67.
44 Brix SR, Noriega M, Tennstedt P, et a/. Development and validation of a renal risk score in ANCA-associated glomerulonephritis. Kidney Int 2018;94:1177-88.
Rutgers A, Slot M, van Paassen P, et a/. Coexistence of anti-glomerular basement membrane antibodies and myeloperoxidase-ancas in crescentic glomerulonephritis. Am J Kidney Dis 2005;46:253-62. 7
45 Hruskova Z, Honsova E, Berden AE, et a/. Repeat protocol renal biopsy in ANCA-associated renal vasculitis. Nephrol Dial Transplant 2014;29:1728-32.
72 McAdoo SP, Tanna A, Hruskova Z, et a/. Patients double-seropositive for ANCA and anti-GBM antibodies have varied renal survival, frequency of relapse, and outcomes compared to single-seropositive patients. Kidney Int 2017;92:693-702
46 Jayne D. Vasculitis-when can biopsy be avoided? Nephrol Dial Transplant 2017;32:1454-6.
47 Devaney KO, Travis WD, Hoffman G, et a/. Interpretation of head and neck biopsies in Wegener's granulomatosis. A pathologic study of 126 biopsies in 70 patients. Am J Surg Pathol 1990;14:555-64.
73 Lyons PA, Peters JE, Alberici F, et al. Genome-Wide association study of eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis reveals genomic loci stratified by ANCA status. Nat Commun 2019;10:5120.
48 Schnabel A, Holl-Ulrich K, Dalhoff K, et a/. Efficacy of transbronchial biopsy in pulmonary vaculitides. Eur Respir J 1997;10:2738-43.
74 Comarmond C, Pagnoux C, Khellaf M, et a/. Eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis (Churg-Strauss): clinical characteristics and long-term followup of the 383 patients enrolled in the French vasculitis Study Group cohort. Arthritis Rheum 2013;65:270-81.
49 Chino H, Hagiwara E, Kitamura H, et a/. Myeloperoxidase anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibody-positive interstitial pneumonia associated with granulomatosis with polyangiitis diagnosed by surgical lung biopsy. Respiration 2016;92:348-55.
50 Utzig MJ, Warzelhan J, Wertzel H, et a/. Role of thoracic surgery and interventional bronchoscopy in Wegener's granulomatosis. Ann Thorac Surg 2002;74:1948-52.
75 Papo M, Sinico RA, Teixeira V, et al. Significance of PR3-ANCA positivity in eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis (Churg-Strauss). Rheumatology (Oxford) 2021;60:4355-60
51 Tomizawa H, Enomoto K, Kurokawa H, et a/. Antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody (ANCA) negative limited-form granulomatosis with polyangiitis of the lung diagnosed by the thoracoscopic lung biopsy. Kyobu Geka 2018;71:680-4.
76 Moiseev S, Bossuyt X, Arimura Y, et a/. International consensus on ANCA testing in eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis. Am J Respir Crit Care Med 25, 2020.
Hellmich B, et al. Ann Rheum Dis 2024;83:30-47. doi:10.1136/ard-2022-223764

--- Page 16 ---

Recommendatio
induction in early systemic antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody-associated vasculitis. Arthritis Rheum 2012;64:3472-7.
77 Terrier B, Pugnet G, deC, et a/. Rituximab versus conventional therapeutic strategy for remission induction in eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis: A double-blind, randomized, controlled trial [abstract]. Arthritis & Rheumatology 2021;73. Available: https://acrabstracts.org/abstract/rituximab-versus-conventional-therapeutic-strategy-for-remission-induction-in-eosinophilic-granulomatosis-with-polyangiitis-a-double-blind-randomized-controlled-trial/
106 De Groot K, Rasmussen N, Bacon PA, et a/. Randomized trial of cyclophosphamide versus methotrexate for induction of remission in early systemic antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody-associated vasculitis. Arthritis Rheum 2005;52:2461-9.
uy
107 Flossmann O, Berden A, de Groot K, et a/. Long-Term patient survival in ANCA-associated vasculitis. Ann Rheum Dis 2011;70:488-94.
78 Wechsler ME, Akuthota P, Jayne D, et a/. Mepolizumab or placebo for eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis. N Eng/ J Med 2017;376:1921-32.
"€ZO7 YOR QL UO HO9ZETZ-ZZO7-PIE/YEL LOL SB peysiiqnd jsay :siq wneyy 1x9} 0} payejas sasn 410} Bulpnyout ‘}yHiuAdoo Aq pa}0e}01q
108 Chanouzas D, McGregor JAG, Nightingale P, et a/. Intravenous pulse methylprednisolone for induction of remission in severe ANCA associated vasculitis: a multi-center retrospective cohort study. BMC Nephro! 2019;20:58.
Lyons PA, Rayner TF, Trivedi S, et a/. Genetically distinct subsets within ANCA-associated vasculitis. N Eng/ J Med 2012;367:214-23.
80 Csernok E, Hellmich B. Usefulness of vasculitis biomarkers in the era of the personalized medicine. Autoimmun Rev 2020;19:102514.
109 Waki D, Nishimura K, Tokumasu H, et a/. Initial high-dose corticosteroids and renal impairment are risk factors for early severe infections in elderly patients with antineutrophil cytoplasmic autoantibody-associated vasculitis: a retrospective observational study. Medicine (Baltimore) 2020;99:e19173.
81 Stone JH, Merkel PA, Spiera R, et al. Rituximab versus cyclophosphamide for ANCA-associated vasculitis. N Eng/ J Med 2010;363:221-32.
82. Specks U, Merkel PA, Seo P, et al. Efficacy of remission-induction regimens for ANCA-associated vasculitis. N Eng/ J Med 2013;369:417-27.
110 George MD, Baker JF, Winthrop K, et a/. Risk for serious infection with low-dose glucocorticoids in patients with rheumatoid arthritis: a cohort study. Ann Intern Med 2020;173:870-8.
83 Jones RB, Tervaert JWC, Hauser T, et a/. Rituximab versus cyclophosphamide in ANCA-associated renal vasculitis. N Eng/ J Med 2010;363:2 11-20.
111 Robson JC, Dawson J, Cronholm PF, et a/. Patient perceptions of glucocorticoids in anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibody-associated vasculitis. Rheumatol Int 2018;38:675-82.
84 Springer JM, Kermani TA, Sreih A, et a/. Clinical characteristics of an Internet-based cohort of patient-reported diagnosis of granulomatosis with polyangiitis and microscopic polyangiitis: observational study. J Med Internet Res 2020;22:e17231.
112 Walsh M, Merkel PA, Peh CA, ef a/. Plasma exchange and glucocorticoid dosing in the treatment of anti-neutrophil cytoplasm antibody associated vasculitis (PEXIVAS): protocol for a randomized controlled trial. Trials 2013; 14:73
85 Clowse MEB, Copland SC, Hsieh T-C, et a/. Ovarian reserve diminished by oral cyclophosphamide therapy for granulomatosis with polyangiitis (Wegener's). Arthritis Care Res (Hoboken) 2011;63:1777-81.
113 Jayne DRW, Gaskin G, Rasmussen N, et a/. Randomized trial of plasma exchange or high-dosage methylprednisolone as adjunctive therapy for severe renal vasculitis. J Am Soc Nephrol 2007;18:2180-8.
86 Soares PMF, Borba EF, Bonfa E, et a/. Gonad evaluation in male systemic lupus erythematosus. Arthritis Rheum 2007;56:2352-61.
114 Yamaguchi M, Katsuno T, lwagaitsu S, et a/. Oral candidiasis is a significant predictor of subsequent severe infections during immunosuppressive therapy in anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibody-associated vasculitis. BMC Infect Dis 2019; 19:664.
87 Knight A, Hjorton K, Sundstrém C, et al. Leukemia and myelodysplastic syndrome in granulomatosis with polyangiitis: subtypes, clinical characteristics, and outcome. J Rheumatol 2015;42:690-4.
88 Faurschou M, Mellemkjaer L, Voss A, et al. Prolonged risk of specific malignancies following cyclophosphamide therapy among patients with granulomatosis with polyangiitis. Rheumatology (Oxford) 2015;54:1345-50.
115 Sakai R, Tanaka E, Nishina H, et a/. Risk of opportunistic infections in patients with antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody-associated vasculitis, using a Japanese health insurance database. Int J Rheum Dis 2019;22:1978-84.
89 Knight A, Askling J, Ekbom A. Cancer incidence in a population-based cohort of patients with Wegener's granulomatosis. Int J Cancer 2002;100:82-5.
116 Walsh M, Catapano F, Szpirt W, et a/. Plasma exchange for renal vasculitis and idiopathic rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis: a meta-analysis. Am J Kidney Dis 2011;57:566-74.
90 Shang W, Ning Y, Xu X, et al. Incidence of cancer in ANCA-associated vasculitis: a meta-analysis of observational studies. PLoS One 2015;10:e0126016.
117 Rifle G, Chalopin JM, Zech P, et a/. Treatment of idiopathic acute crescentic glomerulonephritis by immunodepression and plasma-exchanges. A prospective randomised study. Proc Eur Dial Transplant Assoc 1981;18:493-502.
91 van Daalen EE, Rizzo R, Kronbichler A, et a/. Effect of rituximab on malignancy risk in patients with ANCA-associated vasculitis. Ann Rheum Dis 2017;76:1064-9.
92. Bénard V, Farhat C, Zarandi-Nowroozi M, et a/. Comparison of two rituximab induction regimens for antineutrophil cytoplasm antibody-associated vasculitis: systematic review and meta-analysis. ACR Open Rheumatol 2021;3:484-94.
118 Mauri J, Gonzalez M, Poveda r, et a/. Therapeutic plasma exchange in the treatment of rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis. Plasma Ther Transfus Technol 1985;6:587-91.
papeojuMoOg ‘Bululw eyep pue
93 Antonelou M, Abro A, Heath R, et a/. Comparison of outcomes using the rituximab originator MabThera with the biosimilar truxima in patients with ANCA-associated vasculitis. Scand J Rheumatol 2022;51:135-41
119 Pusey CD, Rees AJ, Evans DJ, et a/. Plasma exchange in focal necrotizing glomerulonephritis without anti-GBM antibodies. Kidney Int 1991;40:757-63.
120 Cole E, Cattran D, Magil A, et a/.A prospective randomized trial of plasma exchange as additive therapy in idiopathic crescentic glomerulonephritis. The Canadian Apheresis Study Group. Am J Kidney Dis 1992;20:261-9.
94 Mittal S, Naidu GSRSNK, Jha S, et a/. Experience with similar biologic rituximab in patients of granulomatosis with polyangiitis-a real-life experience. Clin Rheumatol 2021;40:645-51
121 Guillevin L, Cevallos R, Durand-Gasselin B, et a/. Treatment of glomerulonephritis in microscopic polyangiitis and Churg-Strauss syndrome. indications of plasma exchanges, meta-analysis of 2 randomized studies on 140 patients, 32 with glomerulonephritis. Ann Med Interne (Paris) 1997;148:198-204.
95 Kwon HC, Kim MK, Song JJ, et a/. Rituximab biosimilar prevents poor outcomes of microscopic polyangiitis and granulomatosis with polyangiitis as effectively as rituximab originator. Yonsei Med J 2020;61:712-9.
lug psey/:d}jy WO1y Is pue ‘Bururesy jy “sa1Bojouyoe} Je]! ysanB Aq gzog ‘g} 4equieoegq uo /WO
96 Geetha D, Hruskova Z, Segelmark M, et a/. Rituximab for treatment of severe renal disease in ANCA associated vasculitis. J Nephrol 2016;29:195-201.
122 Zauner |, Bach D, Braun N, et al. Predictive value of initial histology and effect of plasmapheresis on long-term prognosis of rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis. Am J Kidney Dis 2002;39:28-35.
97 Walsh M, Merkel PA, Peh C-A, et a/. Plasma exchange and glucocorticoids in severe ANCA-associated vasculitis. N Eng/ J Med 2020;382:622-31.
123 Walsh M, Casian A, Flossmann 0, et a/. Long-Term follow-up of patients with severe ANCA-associated vasculitis comparing plasma exchange to intravenous methylprednisolone treatment is unclear. Kidney Int 2013;84:397-402.
98 McAdoo SP, Medjeral-Thomas N, Gopaluni S, et a/. Long-term follow-up of a combined rituximab and cyclophosphamide regimen in renal anti-neutrophil cytoplasm antibody-associated vasculitis. Nephro/ Dial Transplant 2018;33:899.
124 Szpirt WM, Heaf JG, Petersen J. Plasma exchange for induction and cyclosporine A for maintenance of remission in Wegener's granulomatosis -- a clinical randomized controlled trial. Nephrol Dial Transplant 2011;26:206-13
99 Pepper RJ, McAdoo SP, Moran SM, et a/. A novel glucocorticoid-free maintenance regimen for anti-neutrophil cytoplasm antibody-associated vasculitis. Rheumatology (Oxford) 2019;58:260-8.
100 Gulati K, Edwards H, Prendecki M, et a/. Combination treatment with rituximab, low-dose cyclophosphamide and plasma exchange for severe antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody-associated vasculitis. Kidney Int 2021;100:1316-24.
12: a Walsh M, Collister D, Zeng L, et a/. The effects of plasma exchange in patients with ANCA-associated vasculitis: an updated systematic review and meta-analysis. BMJ 2022;376:e064604.
101 Cortazar FB, Muhsin SA, Pendergraft WF, et a/. Combination therapy with rituximab and cyclophosphamide for remission induction in ANCA vasculitis. Kidney Int Rep 2018;3:394—402.
126 Zeng L, Walsh M, Guyatt GH, et a/. Plasma exchange and glucocorticoid dosing for patients with ANCA-associated vasculitis: a clinical practice guideline. BM/ 2022;376:e064597.
127 Casal Moura M, Irazabal MY, Eirin A, et a/. Efficacy of rituximab and plasma exchange in antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody-associated vasculitis with severe kidney disease. JAm Soc Nephrol 2020;31:2688-704.
102 Tuin J, Stassen PM, Bogdan DI, et al. Mycophenolate mofetil versus cyclophosphamide for the induction of remission in nonlife-threatening relapses of antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody-associated vasculitis: randomized, controlled trial. Clin J Am Soc Nephrol 2019;14:1021-8.
128 Nezam D, Porcher R, Grolleau F, et al. Kidney histopathology can predict kidney function in ANCA-associated vasculitides with acute kidney injury treated with plasma exchanges. J Am Soc Nephrol 2022;33:628-37.
103 HuW, Liu C, Xie H, et a/. Mycophenolate mofetil versus cyclophosphamide for inducing remission of ANCA vasculitis with moderate renal involvement. Nephrol Dial Transplant 2008;23:1307-12
129 Klemmer PJ, Chalermskulrat W, Reif MS, et a/. Plasmapheresis therapy for diffuse alveolar hemorrhage in patients with small-vessel vasculitis. Am J Kidney Dis 2003;42:1149-53.
104 Han F, Liu G, Zhang X, et al. Effects of mycophenolate mofetil combined with corticosteroids for induction therapy of microscopic polyangiitis. Am J Nephrol 2011;33:185-92.
130 Cartin-Ceba R, Diaz-Caballero L, Al-Qadi MO, et a/. Diffuse alveolar hemorrhage secondary to antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody-associated vasculitis: predictors of respiratory failure and clinical outcomes. Arthritis Rneumato! 2016;68:1467-76.
105 Faurschou M, Westman K, Rasmussen N, et al. Brief report: long-term outcome of a randomized clinical trial comparing methotrexate to cyclophosphamide for remission
Hellmich B, et al. Ann Rheum Dis 2024;83:30—47. doi:10.1136/ard-2022-223764

--- Page 17 ---

Recommendation
131 Levy JB, Turner AN, Rees AJ, et a/. Long-Term outcome of anti-glomerular basement membrane antibody disease treated with plasma exchange and immunosuppression. Ann Intern Med 2001;134:1033-42.
156 de Joode AAE, Sanders JSF, Puéchal X, ef a/. Long term azathioprine maintenance therapy in ANCA-associated vasculitis: combined results of long-term follow-up data. Rheumatology (Oxford) 2017;56:1894-901.
132 Rovin BH, Adler SG, Barratt J. Executive summary of the KDIGO 2021 guideline for the management of glomerular diseases. Kidney Int 2021;100:753-79.
157 Karras A, Pagnoux C, Haubitz M, et a/. Randomised controlled trial of prolonged treatment in the remission phase of ANCA-associated vasculitis. Ann Rheum Dis 2017;76:1662-8.
uy
133 Guillevin L, Lhote F, Cohen P, et al. Corticosteroids plus pulse cyclophosphamide and plasma exchanges versus corticosteroids plus pulse cyclophosphamide alone in the treatment of polyarteritis nodosa and Churg-Strauss syndrome patients with factors predicting poor prognosis. A prospective, randomized trial in Sixty-two patients. Arthritis Rheum 1995;38:1638-45.
"€ZO7 YOR QL UO HO9ZETZ-ZZO7-PIE/YEL LOL SB peysiiqnd jsay :siq wneyy 1x9} 0} payejas sasn 410} Bulpnyout ‘}yHiuAdoo Aq pa}0e}01q
158 Sanders J-SF, de Joode AAE, DeSevaux RG, et al. Extended versus standard azathioprine maintenance therapy in newly diagnosed proteinase-3 anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibody-associated vasculitis patients who remain cytoplasmic anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibody-positive after induction of remission: a randomized clinical trial. Nephrol Dial Transplant 2016;31:1453-9.
134 Guillevin L, Jarrousse B, Lok C, et a/. Longterm followup after treatment of polyarteritis nodosa and Churg-Strauss angiitis with comparison of steroids, plasma exchange and cyclophosphamide to steroids and plasma exchange. A prospective randomized trial of 71 patients. the cooperative Study Group for polyarteritis nodosa. J Rheumatol 1991;18:567-74.
159 Deshayes S, Martin Silva N, Khoy K, et a/. Clinical impact of subgrouping ANCA-associated vasculitis according to antibody specificity beyond the clinicopathological classification. Rheumatology (Oxford) 2019;58:1731-9.
160 Salmela A, Tornroth T, Poussa T, et a/. Prognostic factors for survival and relapse in ANCA-associated vasculitis with renal involvement: A clinical long-term follow-up study. Int J Nephro! 2018;2018:6369814.
135 Jayne DR, Chapel H, Adu D, et a/. Intravenous immunoglobulin for ANCA-associated systemic vasculitis with persistent disease activity. Q/M 2000;93:433-9.
161 Walsh M, Flossmann O, Berden A, et al. Risk factors for relapse of antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody-associated vasculitis. Arthritis Rheum 2012;64:542-8.
136 Guillevin L, Pagnoux C, Karras A, et al. Rituximab versus azathioprine for maintenance in ANCA-associated vasculitis. V Engl J Med 2014;371:1771-80.
162 Lionaki S, Blyth ER, Hogan SL, et a/. Classification of antineutrophil cytoplasmic autoantibody vasculitides: the role of antineutrophil cytoplasmic autoantibody specificity for myeloperoxidase or proteinase 3 in disease recognition and prognosis. Arthritis Rheum 2012;64:3452-62.
137 Smith R, Jayne D, Merkel P. LBO04A randomized, controlled trial of rituximab versus azathioprine after induction of remission with rituximab for patients with ANCA-associated vasculitis and relapsing disease [abstract]. Nephrology Dialysis Transplantation 2020;35.
163 Solans-Laqué R, Fraile G, Rodriguez-Carballeira M, et a/. Clinical characteristics and outcome of spanish patients with ANCA-associated vasculitides: impact of the vasculitis type, ANCA specificity, and treatment on mortality and morbidity. Medicine (Baltimore) 2017;96:e6083
138 Charles P, Perrodeau E, Samson M, et al. Long-Term rituximab use to maintain remission of antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody-associated vasculitis: a randomized trial. Ann Intern Med 2020;173:179-87.
139 Charles P, Terrier B, Perrodeau E, et a/. Comparison of individually tailored versus fixed-schedule rituximab regimen to maintain ANCA-associated vasculitis remission: results of a multicentre, randomised controlled, phase III trial (MAINRITSAN2). Ann Rheum Dis 2018;77:1143-9.
164 Alberici F, Smith RM, Jones RB, et a/. Long-term follow-up of patients who received Tepeat-dose rituximab as maintenance therapy for ANCA-associated vasculitis. Rheumatology (Oxford) 2015;54:1153-60.
165 McClure ME, Wason J, Gopaluni S, et a/. Evaluation of PR3-ANCA status after rituximab for ANCA-associated vasculitis. J Clin Rheumatol 2019;25:217-23.
140 Terrier B, Pagnoux C, Perrodeau E, et a/. Long-Term efficacy of remission-maintenance regimens for ANCA-associated vasculitides. Ann Rheum Dis 2018;77:1150-6.
166 Morgan MD, Szeto M, Walsh M, et a/. Negative anti-neutrophil cytoplasm antibody at switch to maintenance therapy is associated with a reduced risk of relapse. Arthritis Res Ther 2017;19:129.
141 Montante A, Le Bras A, Pagnoux C, et al. Cost-Effectiveness of rituximab versus azathioprine for maintenance treatment in antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody-associated vasculitis. Clin Exp Rheumatol 2019;37 Suppl 117:137—-43.
167 Vandenbussche C, Bitton L, Bataille P, et a/. Prognostic value of microscopic hematuria after induction of remission in antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies-associated vasculitis. Am J Nephrol 2019;49:479-86.
142 Kronbichler A, Geetha D, Smith RM, et al. The COVID-19 pandemic and ANCA-associated vasculitis - reports from the EUVAS meeting and EUVAS education forum. Autoimmun Rev 2021;20:102986.
168 Harper L, Morgan MD, Walsh M, et a/. Pulse versus daily oral cyclophosphamide for induction of remission in ANCA-associated vasculitis: long-term follow-up. Ann Rheum Dis 2012;71:955-60.
143 Mrak D, Tobudic S, Koblischke M. SARS-cov-2 vaccination in rituximab-treated patients: B cells promote humoral immune responses in the presence of T-cellmediated immunity. Ann Rheum Dis 2021;80:1345-50.
papeojuMoOg eyep pue
169 Hogan SL, Falk RJ, Chin H, et a/. Predictors of relapse and treatment resistance in antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody-associated small-vessel vasculitis. Ann Intern Med 2005;143:621-31.
144 Spiera R, Jinich S, Jannat-Khah D. Rituximab, but not other antirheumatic therapies, is associated with impaired serological response to SARScov-2 vaccination in patients with rheumatic diseases. Ann Rheum Dis 2021;80:1357-9.
170 Lionaki S, Hogan SL, Jennette CE, et a/. The clinical course of ANCA small-vessel vasculitis on chronic dialysis. Kidney Int 2009;76:644-51.
lug psey/:d}jy WO1y Is pue ‘Bururesy jy ‘Bululw “sa1Bojouyoe} Je]! ysanB Aq gzog ‘g} 4equieoegq uo /WO
145 Tieu J, Smith R, Basu N, et a/. Rituximab for maintenance of remission in ANCA-associated vasculitis: expert consensus guidelines. Rheumatology (Oxford) 2020;59:e24-32.
171 Kauffmann M, Bobot M, Robert T, et a/. Disease activity and adverse events in patients with ANCA-associated vasculitides undergoing long-term dialysis. Clin J Am Soc Nephrol 2021;16:1665-75.
172 Gao Y, Chen M, Ye H, et a/. Long-term outcomes of patients with propylthiouracil-induced anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic auto-antibody-associated vasculitis. Rheumatology (Oxford) 2008;47:1515-20
146 Wijetilleka S, Mukhtyar C, Jayne D, et a/. Immunoglobulin replacement for secondary immunodeficiency after B-cell targeted therapies in autoimmune theumatic disease: systematic literature review. Autoimmunity Rev 2019;18:535-41,
173 Puechal X, Pagnoux C, Baron G, et a/. Adding azathioprine to remission-induction glucocorticoids for eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis (churg-strauss), microscopic polyangiitis, or polyarteritis nodosa without poor prognosis factors: A randomized, controlled trial. Arthritis Rheumatol 2017;69:2175-86.
14 3 Pagnoux C, Mahr A, Hamidou MA, et a/. Azathioprine or methotrexate maintenance for ANCA-associated vasculitis. N Eng/ J Med 2008;359:2790-803
148 Metzler C, Miehle N, Manger K, et a/. Elevated relapse rate under oral methotrexate versus leflunomide for maintenance of remission in wegener's granulomatosis. Rheumatology (Oxford) 2007;46:1087-91.
174 Samson M, Puechal X, Devilliers H, et a/. Long-term outcomes of 118 patients with eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis (churg-strauss syndrome) enrolled in two prospective trials. J Autoimmun 2013;43:60-9.
149 Hiemstra TF, Walsh M, Mahr A, et a/. Mycophenolate mofetil vs azathioprine for remission maintenance in antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody-associated vasculitis: a randomized controlled trial. JAMA 2010;304:2381-8.
175 Guillevin L, Pagnoux C, Seror R, et a/. The five-factor score revisited: assessment of prognoses of systemic necrotizing vasculitides based on the french vasculitis study group (FVSG) cohort. Medicine (Baltimore) 2011;90:19-27.
150 Metzler C, Fink C, Lamprecht P, et a/. Maintenance of remission with leflunomide in wegener’s granulomatosis. Rheumatology (Oxford) 2004;43:315-20.
176 Solans-Laqué R, Rodriguez-Carballeira M, Rios-Blanco JJ, et a/. Comparison of the Birmingham vasculitis activity score and the five-factor score to assess survival in antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody-associated vasculitis: a study of 550 patients from Spain (REVAS registry). Arthritis Care Res (Hoboken) 2020;72:1001—-10.
15 Monti S, Delvino P, Riboli M, ef a/. The role of trimethoprim/sulfametoxazole in reducing relapses and risk of infections in ANCA-associated vasculitis: a metaanalysis. Rheumatology (Oxford) 2021;60:3553-64.
177 Garcia-Vives E, Rodriguez-Palomares JF, Harty L, et a/. Heart disease in eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis (EGPA) patients: a screening approach proposal. Rheumatology (Oxford) 2021;60:4538-47
15. Nn Walters GD, Willis NS, Cooper TE, et a/. Interventions for renal vasculitis in adults. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2020; 1:CD003232.
wo Jayne D, Blockmans D, Lugmani R, et al. Efficacy and safety of belimumab and azathioprine for maintenance of remission in antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody-associated vasculitis: A randomized controlled study. Arthritis Rheumatol 2019;71:952-63
15:
178 Sartorelli S, Chassagnon G, Cohen P, et al. Revisiting characteristics, treatment and outcome of cardiomyopathy in eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis (formerly Churg-Strauss). Rheumatology (Oxford) 2022;61:1175-84.
179 Samson M, Puéchal X, Devilliers H. Mononeuritis multiplex predicts the need for immunosuppressive or immunomodulatory drugs for EGPA, pan and MPA patients without poor-prognosis factors. Autoimmun Rev 2014;13:945-53.
154 Walsh M, Merkel PA, Mahr A, et al. Effects of duration of glucocorticoid therapy on relapse rate in antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody-associated vasculitis: A metaanalysis. Arthritis Care Res (Hoboken) 2010;62:1166-73
180 Cohen P, Pagnoux C, Mahr A, ef a/. Churg-Strauss syndrome with poor-prognosis factors: a prospective multicenter trial comparing glucocorticoids and six or twelve cyclophosphamide pulses in forty-eight patients. Arthritis Rneum 2007;57:686-93
155 Springer J, Nutter B, Langford CA, et a/. Granulomatosis with polyangiitis (wegener’s): impact of maintenance therapy duration. Medicine (Baltimore) 2014;93:82-90.
Hellmich B, et al. Ann Rheum Dis 2024;83:30-47. doi:10.1136/ard-2022-223764

--- Page 18 ---

Recommendatio
205 Park JW, Curtis JR, Kim MJ, et al. Pneumocystis pneumonia in patients with theumatic diseases receiving prolonged, non-high-dose steroids-clinical implication of primary prophylaxis using trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole. Arthritis Res Ther 2019;21:207.
181. Teixeira V, Mohammad AJ, Jones RB, et al. Efficacy and safety of rituximab in the treatment of eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis. RMD Open 2019;5:e000905.
182 Mohammad AJ, Hot A, Arndt F, et a/. Rituximab for the treatment of eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis (churg-strauss). Ann Rheum Dis 2016;75:396-401.
206 Little MA, Nightingale P, Verburgh CA, et a/. Early mortality in systemic vasculitis: relative contribution of adverse events and active vasculitis. Ann Rheum Dis 2010;69:1036-43.
183. Bettiol A, Urban ML, Dagna L, et a/. Mepolizumab for eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis (EGPA): a european multicenter observational study. Arthritis Rheumatol 2021;74:295-306.
HO9ZETZ-ZZO7-PIE/YEL LOL SB peysiiqnd jsay :siq wneyy uy
207 Watts CS, Sciasci JN, Pauley JL, et a/. Prophylactic trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole does not affect pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics of methotrexate. J Pediatr Hematol Oncol 2016;38:449-52.
184 Puechal X, Pagnoux C, Baron G, et a/. Non-severe eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis: long-term outcomes after remission-induction trial. Rheumatology (Oxford) 2019;58:2107-16.
208 Winthrop KL, Baddley JW. Pneumocystis and glucocorticoid use: to prophylax or not to prophylax (and when?); that is the question. Ann Rheum Dis 2018;77:631-3.
185 Philobos M, Perkins A, Karabayas M, et al. A real-world assessment of mycophenolate mofetil for remission induction in eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis. Rheumatol Int 2021;41:1811-4.
209 Para MF Finkelstein D, Becker S, et a/. Reduced toxicity with gradual initiation of trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole as primary prophylaxis for Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia: AIDS clinical Trials Group 268. J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr 2000;24:337-43.
Bulpnyout ‘}yHiuAdoo Aq pa}0e}01q
186 Metzler C, Hellmich B, Gause A, et a/. Churg strauss syndrome -- successful induction of remission with methotrexate and unexpected high cardiac and pulmonary relapse ratio during maintenance treatment. Clin Exp Rheumatol 2004;22:552-61.
210 Leoung GS, Stanford JF, Giordano MF et al. Trimethoprim-Sulfamethoxazole (TMPSMZ) dose escalation versus direct rechallenge for Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia prophylaxis in human immunodeficiency virus-infected patients with previous adverse reaction to TMP-SMZ. J Infect Dis 2001;184:992-7.
187 Steinfeld J, Bradford ES, Brown J. Evaluation of clinical benefit from treatment with mepolizumab for patients with eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis. J Allergy Clin Immunol 2019;143:2170-7.
211 Bozzette SA, Finkelstein DM, Spector SA, et a/. A randomized trial of three antipneumocystis agents in patients with advanced human immunodeficiency virus infection. NIAID AIDS clinical trials group. N Eng! J Med 1995;332:693-9.
188 Guntur VP, Manka LA, Denson JL. Benralizumab as a steroid-sparing treatment option in eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis. J Allergy Clin Immunol Pract 2021;9:1186-93
212 El-Sadr WM, Murphy RL, Yurik TM, et a/. Atovaquone compared with dapsone for the prevention of pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in patients with HIV infection who cannot tolerate trimethoprim, sulfonamides, or both. community program for clinical research on AIDS and the AIDS clinical trials group. N Eng! J Med 1998;339:1889-95.
189 Manka LA, Guntur VP, Denson JL. Efficacy and safety of reslizumab in the treatment of eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis. Ann Allergy Asthma Immunol 2021;126:696-701
190 Canzian A, Venhoff N, Urban ML, et a/. Use of biologics to treat relapsing and/ or refractory eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis: data from a European collaborative study. Arthritis Rheumatol 2021;73:498-503.
213 Jinno S, Akashi K, Onishi A, et al. Comparative effectiveness of trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole versus atovaquone for the prophylaxis of pneumocystis pneumonia in patients with connective tissue diseases receiving prolonged high-dose glucocorticoids. Rheumatol Int 2022;42:1403-9.
lug psey/:d}jy WO1y papeojuMoOg "€ZO7 YOR QL UO Is pue ‘Bururesy jy ‘Bululw eyep pue 1x9} 0} payejas sasn 410} “sa1Bojouyoe} Je]! 4equieoegq uo /WO
191 Emmi G, Rossi GM, Urban ML, et a/. Scheduled rituximab maintenance reduces relapse rate in eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis. Ann Rheum Dis 2018;77:952—4.
192 Doubelt |, Pulenzas N, Carette S, et a/. Efficacy of conventional immunosuppressants in relapsing or refractory eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis: evidence from a Canadian single-centre cohort. Clin Exp Rheumatol 2020;38 Suppl 124:171-5.
214 Schneider MM, Hoepelman Al, Eeftinck Schattenkerk JK, et al. A controlled trial of aerosolized pentamidine or trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole as primary prophylaxis against pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in patients with human immunodeficiency virus infection. the dutch AIDS treatment group. N Engl J Med 1992;327:1836-41.
215 Furer V, Rondaan C, Heijstek MW, et a/. 2019 update of EULAR recommendations for vaccination in adult patients with autoimmune inflammatory rheumatic diseases. Ann Rheum Dis 2020;79:39-52.
193 Maritati F Alberici F, Oliva E, et a/. Methotrexate versus cyclophosphamide for remission maintenance in ANCA-associated vasculitis: a randomised trial. PLoS One 2017;12:e0185880.
216 Andreoli L, Bertsias GK, Agmon-Levin N, et al. EULAR recommendations for women’s health and the management of family planning, assisted reproduction, pregnancy and menopause in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus and/or antiphospholipid syndrome. Ann Rheum Dis 2017;76:476-85.
194 Watanabe H, Sada K-E, Matsumoto Y, et a/. Association between reappearance of myeloperoxidase-antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody and relapse in antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody-associated vasculitis: subgroup analysis of nationwide prospective cohort studies. Arthritis Rheumatol 2018;70:1626-33.
217 GGtestam Skorpen C, Hoeltzenbein M, Tincani A, et al. The EULAR points to consider for use of antirheumatic drugs before pregnancy, and during pregnancy and lactation. Ann Rheum Dis 2016;75:795-810.
195 van Dam LS, Dirikgil E, Bredewold EW, et a/. PR3-ancas predict relapses in ANCA-associated vasculitis patients after rituximab. Nephro! Dial Transplant 2021;36:1408-17
218 Stevens KI, Frangou E, Shin JIL, et a/. Perspective on COVID-19 vaccination in patients with immune-mediated kidney diseases: consensus statements from the ERA-IWG and EUVAS. Nephrol Dial Transplant 2022;37:1400-10.
196 Arnold J, Vital EM, Dass S, et a/. A personalized rituximab retreatment approach based on clinical and B-cell biomarkers in ANCA-associated vasculitis. Front Immunol 2021;12:803175.
197 Mukhtyar C, Lee R, Brown D, et a/. Modification and validation of the Birmingham vasculitis activity score (version 3). Ann Rheum Dis 2009;68:1827-32.
219 Bijlsma JW. EULAR December 2020 viewpoints on SARS-cov-2 vaccination in patients with rmds. Ann Rheum Dis 2021;80:411-2.
220 Alunno A, Najm A, Machado PM, et a/. 2021 update of the EULAR points to consider on the use of immunomodulatory therapies in COVID-19. Ann Rheum Dis 2022;81:34—-40.
198 Exley AR, Bacon PA, Lugmani RA, et a/. Development and initial validation of the vasculitis damage index for the standardized clinical assessment of damage in the systemic vasculitides. Arthritis Rheum 1997;40:37 1-80.
221 Stassen PM, Tervaert JWC, Stegeman CA. Induction of remission in active anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibody-associated vasculitis with mycophenolate mofetil in patients who can not be treated with cyclophosphamide. Ann Rheum Dis 2007;66:798-802.
199 Roberts DM, Jones RB, Smith RM. Rituximab-associated hypogammaglobulinemia: incidence, predictors and outcomes in patients with multi-system autoimmune disease. J Autoimmun 2015;57:60-5.
200 Venhoff N, Effelsberg NM, Salzer U, et a/. Impact of rituximab on immunoglobulin concentrations and B cell numbers after cyclophosphamide treatment in patients with ANCA-associated vasculitides. PLoS One 2012;7:e37626.
222 Tervaert JW, Huitema MG, Hené RJ, et a/. Prevention of relapses in Wegener's granulomatosis by treatment based on antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody titre. Lancet 1990;336:709-11.
201 Wijetilleka S, Jayne DR, Mukhtyar C, et a/. Recommendations for the management of secondary hypogammaglobulinaemia due to B cell targeted therapies in autoimmune rheumatic diseases. Rheumatology (Oxford) 2019;58:889-96.
223 de Groot K, Harper L, Jayne DRW, et a/. Pulse versus daily oral cyclophosphamide for induction of remission in antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody-associated vasculitis: a randomized trial. Ann Intern Med 2009; 150:670-80.
202 Kronbichler A, Kerschbaum J, Gopaluni S, et a/. Trimethoprim-Sulfamethoxazole prophylaxis prevents severe/life-threatening infections following rituximab in antineutrophil cytoplasm antibody-associated vasculitis. Ann Rheum Dis 2018;77:1440-7.
224 Jones RB, Furuta S, Tervaert JWC, et a/. Rituximab versus cyclophosphamide in ANCA-associated renal vasculitis: 2-year results of a randomised trial. Ann Rheum Dis 2015;74:1178-82.
ysanB Aq gzog ‘g}
225 Mansfield N, Hamour S, Habib A-M, et a/. Prolonged disease-free remission following rituximab and low-dose cyclophosphamide therapy for renal ANCA-associated vasculitis. Nephrol Dial Transplant 2011;26:3280-6.
203 Stegeman CA, Tervaert JW, de Jong PE, et a/. Trimethoprim-Sulfamethoxazole (co-trimoxazole) for the prevention of relapses of Wegener's granulomatosis. Dutch co-trimoxazole Wegener Study Group. N Engl J Med 1996;335:16-20.
204 Park JW, Curtis JR, Moon J, et a/. Prophylactic effect of trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole for Pneumocystis pneumonia in patients with rheumatic diseases exposed to prolonged high-dose glucocorticoids. Ann Rheum Dis 2018;77:644-9.
226 Jayne D, Rasmussen N, Andrassy K, et a/. A randomized trial of maintenance therapy for vasculitis associated with antineutrophil cytoplasmic autoantibodies. N Engl J Med 2003;349:36-44.
Hellmich B, et al. Ann Rheum Dis 2024;83:30—47. doi:10.1136/ard-2022-223764